https://www.javatpoint.com/transducer-vs-sensor
Difference between Transducer and Sensor - javatpoint
Difference between Transducer and Sensor - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Transducer and Sensor The transducer and sensor are not similar, but both are related to each other. Read on the given tutorial to know the basic difference between transducer and sensor. What is Transducer? A transducer refers to an electronic device that converts one form of energy into another form. For example, Loudspeaker, LVDT, thermocouple, etc. The transducer is the main element and plays a vital role in measuring instruments. For example, consider an example of the photoelectric cell, which converts sound energy into electrical energy. There are two types of transducers Active Transducers Passive Transducers 1) Active Transducers: Active transducers refer to those transducers that do not need any external source to convert physical quantity into electrical parameters. For example, thermocouple and solar panel. 2) Passive Transducers: Passive transducers refer to those transducers that need an external source to convert physical quantity into electrical quantity. For example, LVDT, a thermistor. Applications of transducers These are the various application of transducers. Transducers are used as a sensor. Transducers are used in antennas. Transducers are used as an ultrasound machines. Transducers are used in Loudspeakers. Transducers are used as a measuring instrument to measure physical quantities like pressure, speed, force, displacement, toque, etc. What is a sensor? "Sensor" As the name suggests, it is a device that senses something or the device which is made to sense something. In other words, we can say that a sensor is an object whose motive is to detect changes in its environment and then provides corresponding output by using electrical or optical signals. A sensor is a transducer type that responds to an input quantity like pressure, speed, pressure, temperature, etc., by generating output like voltage current. Let us understand the concept of the sensor with the help of an example. For example, The proximity sensor is a good example of a sensor. It is a sensor mounted on your touch screen phone. When we are talking to someone, our cheek touches the screen, but nothing happens. The proximity sensor detects that you are holding your phone close to your ear and disables the touch screen. There are different sensors available in the markets for detecting Light, motion, temperature, magnetic fields, gravity, humidity, moisture, vibration, and other physical aspects of the external environment. They use different techniques for detection purposes. There are various types of sensors. Motion sensors Motion sensors are designed to detect and respond to the movement happen outside of the component. Temperature sensors Temperature sensors are designed to detect the amount of heat produced by the component. Optical sensors Optical sensors are designed to detect the presence of light. Radiation sensors Radiation sensors are designed to detect alpha, beta, and gamma particles and provide a signal to display devices. Proximity sensors Proximity sensors are designed to detect the presence of nearby objects without contacting them. Position sensors Position sensors are designed to detect the positions of doors, valves, etc., and provide signals to the display devices. Applications of sensors These are the various application of sensors. An automatic door, Automatic door uses the infrared microwave radiation of the human body to open and close the door. Mobile phones, digital camera cameras, using optical sensors to capture images. Water level Indicator, temperature alarm, humidity alarm, optical alarm, etc. Difference between transducer and sensor Transducer Sensor A transducer refers to a device that simply converts one form of energy into another form of energy A sensor is an object whose motive is to detect changes in its environment, and then provides corresponding output by using electrical or optical signals. Transducers output will not be an electric output always. Sensor output is always electric output. All transducers are not sensors. All sensors are transducers. It converts a change in the physical parameter into some useful energy form. For example, a Piezoelectric crystal with electrodes is a transducer. The sensor can respond to the physical changes and produce a change in a physical parameter that can be sensed. The transducer is more complicated. The sensor is less complicated. Examples of transducers are Loudspeaker, LVDT, thermocouple, etc. Examples of sensors are capacitance, temperature resistance, etc. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
