https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/java-programs/
Java Programs Archives - GeeksforGeeks
Java Programs Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Category Archives: Java Programs Java Programming Examples The following Java section contains a wide range of Java programs from basic to intermediate level. The examples are categorized as basic, string, array, collections,… Read More Java Java Programs How to Convert java.util.Date to java.sql.Date in Java? Date class is present in both java.util package and java.sql package. Though the name of the class is the same for both packages, their utilities… Read More Java-Date-Time Picked Java Java Programs Java Program to Implement Triply Linked List Unlike arrays, linked list elements are not stored at a contiguous location; the elements are linked using pointers. In this post, methods to insert a… Read More Picked Java Java Programs Linked List Copy Elements of Vector to Java ArrayList Since Vector class and ArrayList class both are part of Java Collections, ie Collection framework, so both of these classes can use methods available to… Read More Java-ArrayList Java-Collections Java-Vector Picked Java Java Programs How to Convert JSON Array to String Array in Java? JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. It is one of the widely used formats to exchange data by web applications. JSON arrays are almost the… Read More Java-Array-Programs Picked Java Java Programs Java Program to Find the Occurrence of Words in a String using HashMap HashMap<Key, Value> provides the basic implementation of the Map interface of Java and import java.util.HashMap package or its superclass. HashMap stores the data in (Key,… Read More Java-HashMap Java-String-Programs Java Java Programs Java Program to Find LCM of Two Numbers LCM (i.e. Least Common Multiple) is the largest of the two stated numbers that can be divided by both the given numbers. Example: LCM of… Read More Java Java Programs Java Program to Add Two Binary Strings When two binary strings are added, then the sum returned is also a binary string. Example: Input : x = "10", y = "01" Output:… Read More Java-String-Programs Java Java Programs Java Program to Find GCD or HCF of Two Numbers GCD (i.e. Greatest Common Divisor) or HCF (i.e. Highest Common Factor) is the largest number that can divide both the given numbers. Example: HCF of… Read More Java Java Programs Java Program to Find Independent Sets in a Graph By Graph Coloring Independent sets are set of vertices or edges in which the pair of any two vertices or edges are not adjacent to each other. Assuming… Read More Picked Graph Java Java Programs Java Program to Implement IdentityHashMap API The IdentityHashMap implements Map interface using Hashtable, using reference-equality in place of object-equality when comparing keys (and values). This class is not a general-purpose Map… Read More Java-Collections java-IdentityHashMap Picked Java Java Programs Java Program to Implement of Gabow Scaling Algorithm Gabow’s Algorithm is a scaling algorithm that aims in solving a problem by initially considering only the highest order bit of each relevant input value… Read More Graph Java Java Programs How to Get Size, Minimum, and Maximum Value of Data Types in Java? Medium The size of a data type is given by (name of datatype).SIZE. The maximum value that it can store is given by (Name of data… Read More Java-Data Types Java Java Programs Java Program to Calculate and Display Area of a Circle Given a radius of the circle, write a java program to calculate and display the area of the circle. (Take ?=3.142) Example Input : radius=… Read More circle Picked Java Java Programs Java Program to Implement Playfair Cipher Algorithm Cipher is an algorithm for encryption and decryption. The cipher text is a process that applies to different types of algorithms to convert plain text… Read More Java Java Programs Page 1 of 8812345...102030...»Last » What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Java Programs Convert a String to Character array in Java Initializing a List in Java Implementing a Linked List in Java using Class Min Heap in Java Traverse through a HashMap in Java Most Visited in Java Programs Program to print ASCII Value of a character Quick Sort vs Merge Sort Java Program to find largest element in an array Java program to count the occurrences of each character How to remove all white spaces from a String in Java? 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
