https://www.javatpoint.com/reproduction
Reproduction | What is Reproduction - javatpoint
Reproduction | What is Reproduction - javatpoint ? Home Definitions Reasoning Aptitude Verbal Ability GK Programs Projects Interview Q Java JSP Android C# HTML CSS jQuery Training Definitions Antibiotics Definition Conjunction Definition Corrosion Definition Deforestation Definition Pressure Definition Viscosity Definition Water Pollution Definition Even Numbers Definition Kinetic Energy Definition Anemia Definition Blood Pressure Definition Stress Definition Asynchronous Definition Entropy Definition Real Numbers Definition Frame Definition Sonar Definition Asthma Definition Cancer Definition Epidemic Definition Analog Definition Humidity Definition Parasite Definition Reproduction Definition Advertising Definition Disaster Definition Interjection Definition Precipitation Definition Sublimation Definition Surface Tension Definition Enzyme Definition next ? ? prev Reproduction Reproduction is the biological process by which new individual organism produces offspring from their parents. This article gives a complete overview of reproduction and its types with their definitions. What is Reproduction? Reproduction is defined as the process by which the parent organism produces offspring that are biologically or genetically similar. Reproduction refers to the process of reproducing. It is a biological mechanism in which an organism reproduces biologically equivalent offspring. Reproduction ensures the continuation of an organism from generation to generation. It is the key attribute of life on earth. Although reproduction in plants and animals is often thought of in terms of the production of offspring, it is more important for living organisms to have a broader significance. Types of Reproduction There are mainly two types of reproduction: Asexual Reproduction Sexual Reproduction Asexual Reproduction Asexual reproduction refers to a form of reproduction in which only one organism creates a new individual. Asexual reproduction also doesn't require the fusion of gametes, and therefore the offspring are genetically similar to the parents. The species created by asexual reproduction are of a less diverse type. Unicellular organisms commonly practice this method of reproduction. The parent reproduces by the following means: 1. Binary Fission When a cell divides into two halves, it grows into an adult quickly (like Amoeba, Paramecium). 2. Budding It occurs in organisms such as yeast. The division is unequal, and little buds are generated that initially remain attached to the parent cell, eventually separating and maturing into new yeast organisms. 3. Fragmentation When the parent body splits into several fragments, every fragment creates a new entity, as seen in Spirogyra. 4. Sporulation A new organism develops from spores in this form of reproduction. They can be produced without fertilization and distributed through the wind and the animals. 5. Gemmule These are also asexual spores generated in bryophytes and animals such as sponges. 6. Vegetative propagation in plants Flowering plants reproduce by means of reproduction, both asexual and sexual. Asexual reproduction occurs through the plant's vegetative elements, such as the roots, stem, leaves, and axillary buds. Within the subject morphology of the flowering plants, much of this detail has already been explored. Sexual Reproduction Sexual reproduction is defined as a type of reproduction that involves the generation of offspring by the fusion of male and female gametes. In sexual reproduction, male and female gametes are produced offspring. These gametes are either made up of the same person or different individuals of the opposite sex. This method is typically slow and complex compared to the asexual reproduction process. The organisms produced in this way are genetically diverse. Thus, along with evolving climate conditions, they will evolve. People and many multicellular species demonstrate a sexual mode of reproduction. Reproduction in plants Plants reproduce through sexual and asexual reproduction. The primary mode of reproduction of plants is vegetative reproduction. And roots such as a corm, stem tubers, rhizomes, and stolon undergo vegetative propagation. In plants, sexual reproduction occurs by pollination, in which the pollen grains of the anther of the male flower is transferred to the stigma of the female flower. Without fertilization, few plants develop seeds, and the process is called apomixes. Here, new seeds are produced by the ovulum or ovary. Reproduction in Animals Animals have both sexual and asexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction is indicated by the fusion of male and female gametes. This method is known as fertilization. Fertilization may be external or internal. The mechanism in which the male sperm fertilizes the female egg outside the body of the female is external fertilization. On the opposite, the fusion of male and female gametes happens within the female body in internal fertilization. Asexual reproduction requires processes of reproduction, including binary fission, budding, fragmentation, etc. There are no reproductive systems in the species, and therefore, no development of male and female gametes occurs. Next TopicAdvertising Definition ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
