https://www.javatpoint.com/jee-main-vs-jee-advanced
Difference between JEE Main and JEE Advanced - javatpoint
Difference between JEE Main and JEE Advanced - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between JEE Main and JEE Advanced The Joint Entrance Examination is an entrance exam conducted for gaining admission into top engineering colleges. There is JEE-Mains, and JEE Advanced exam to assess the students. Maths and science are the most important subjects for preparing for the exams. This exam is given by the students who wish to pursue engineering as their career. You can get admission to top colleges if you clear entrance examinations like AIEEE and many more. JEE Mains exam is segregated into three sections, i.e., the objective-type questions, the mathematical questions, and the subjective-type questions. On the other hand, JEE Advanced is divided into 2 parts, i.e., the numerical one, and the MCQ questions one. But before that, let's take a look at some key differences between JEE Mains and JEE Advanced. S.NO. JEE MAINS JEE ADVANCED 1. The number of attempts allowed in the JEE-Mains exam is 3. The number of attempts allowed in JEE Advanced is 2. 2. The number of candidates appearing for JEE Mains is generally larger than the ones appearing for JEE Advanced. The number of students who appeared in JEE Mains in the year 2020 were 9,20,000. The number of students appearing for JEE Advanced in the year 2020 was 2,00,00. 3. The mode of language used in JEE Mains is Hindi, English, and Gujarati. The mode of language for JEE Advanced is Hindi and English. 4. The eligibility criteria for JEE Mains is that the student has to qualify the 12th board exam from a recognized board. The eligibility criteria for JEE Advanced is that the student has to achieve a rank among 2,50,000 rank holders. 5. There are three papers in the JEE Mains exam. There are only two papers in JEE Advanced exam. 6. JEE Mains exam is conducted by NTA, i.e., National Testing Agency. JEE Advanced is conducted by IIT-Delhi (Indian Institute of Technology). 7. There is no age limit to appear for the JEE Mains exam. The age limit for JEE Advanced is as follows: General category: The student must be born on or after 1st October 1996. SC, ST, PWD: The students under this category are given five years of relaxation. So, these are some of the major differences between JEE Mains and JEE Advanced. JEE Mains and JEE Advanced also differ in other aspects like syllabus, exam pattern, etc. Both the exams are related to each other, yet are different. There are some topics that are included in JEE Advanced but are not included in JEE Mains. Those topics are: Physics: Thermal Physics Chemistry: Electrochemistry Equivalent conductivity Nuclear Chemistry These are some topics that are not included in JEE Mains. Now, let us look at the paper pattern for JEE Main. As mentioned above, the number of papers conducted for JEE Mains exam is 3. In paper 1, the subjects included are Physics, Chemistry, and Maths. The paper is of three hours conducted in an online mode. Paper 1 is for 300 marks. In paper 2, the main subjects are Drawing, Maths and Aptitude. The exam is for three hours conducted in an offline mode. Paper 2 is for 400 marks. In paper 3, the students are assessed based on Aptitude, Planning, and Mathematical skills. The exam is for three hours and is conducted in an online mode. Paper 3 is also of 400 marks. On the other hand, the JEE Advanced exam (Paper 1 and Paper 2) is conducted online, with objective-type questions. Both paper 1 and paper 2 include subjects like physics, chemistry, and maths. Both the exams are for three hours. Paper 1 comes in a multiple-choice questions format, whereas Paper 2 comes in a numerical answer-type format. Well, it is interesting to note that JEE Mains exam is given by those students who wish to gain admission in BE or B.Tech courses in the NITs (National Institute of Technology) or IITs (Indian Institute of Technology). The students who apply for JEE Mains exam can also apply for JEE Advanced exam. JEE Advanced is given by the students who wish to pursue engineering courses. After the students qualify paper 1 and paper 2, they register themselves to give the AAT, i.e., Architecture Aptitude Test. The final selection of the students is made on the basis of the All India Rank, which is gained by the student in the JEE Advanced exam. In the JEE Mains exam, the questions asked are based on the application of formulas. On the other hand, in JEE Advanced, the questions asked are derivation-based. JEE Main exam is easier than the JEE Advanced exam. There is a consistent pattern in JEE Main as compared to JEE Advanced. Therefore, students are advised to prepare accordingly based on the kinds of questions asked. The students can prepare for JEE Mains and JEE Advanced together. But it is advised to prepare for JEE Advanced first as this exam is much harder than JEE Mains. So, if a student prepares for JEE Advanced, then he/ she will automatically be prepared for the JEE mains exam. The syllabus is almost similar for both exams. Now, you must be wondering how to crack these exams. Well, students can only qualify for these exams if they work hard. In order to prepare for these national-level examinations, students must start from the weak subjects. Once the weak subjects are covered, they must study those topics which will probably come in the examination. One of the major tips that the students should follow is that he/ she should clear their fundamentals by studying the NCERT thoroughly. Once you are done with the NCERT, you can study from other reference books to clear or doubts and study further. JEE Mains and JEE Advanced are important national-level examinations that the students give in order to gain admission to top colleges and universities. Students must prepare accordingly for these examinations, thereby following the preparation tips mentioned above. There are certain differences between JEE Mains and JEE Advanced regarding the syllabus, exam pattern, mode of exam, etc. Students can prepare for both exams simultaneously. Thus, both JEE Mains and JEE Advanced are important for the students who wish to apply for engineering courses in top institutions. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
