https://www.javatpoint.com/socket-io
Socket.IO - Javatpoint
Socket.IO - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Socket.IO Socket.io is a JavaScript library. It is a way to communicate between a client and a server. It allows real-time data flow. It is bi-directional communication, means we can flow data in both directions: Client to Server Server to Client Socket.io has two parts: client-side and server-side. Both parts have an identical API. The server-side library runs in node.js. The client-side library runs in the browser. Socket.IO is quite popular and companies like Trello, Yammer, Amazon, Zendesk, and several others use it to develop robust real-time applications. Socket.io is a very popular JavaScript framework on GitHub and is heavily dependent on the NPM plugin. It runs on every browser or platform and focuses equally on speed and reliability. Why Socket.IO? It is very easy to do bi-directional communication between browser and server. Whenever an incident occurs, the server automatically sends the message to the client. It does not require any tracking on the timestamp. It is easy to create a chat server with more sockets.IO than the traditional PHP way. If you want to create a chat server, you have to write more lines of code in PHP. Prerequisites of the socket.io The user should have the basic knowledge of Node.JS, Javascript (JS), and HTML. If the user is unfamiliar with these languages, we would suggest them to go through these languages first. If the user has knowledge of the sublime text, the user can benefit from writing code. Installation The latest Socket.IO release is the npm version (3.1.1). Before installing a socket, you need to ensure whether Node.js and npm are installed in your system or not. If the node.js and npm are not installed in your system, you need to install them first. Follow these steps to install socket.io: Step 1: Open the terminal and create a directory that name is socketio 
mkdir socketio
cd socketio
 Step 2: Initialize the npm package manager in that directory. 
npm init
 Step 3: Type this command to install the socket and save it. 
npm install socket.io express -save
 If the user installs a specific version of the socket.io, use this command. 
npm install socket.io@<version>
 Real-time applications of the Socket.io Instant messengers: Instant messengers are those applications in which you do not need to refresh your application and website to receive new messages, such as WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, etc. Push Notifications: Push notifications are those applications in which you will be notified when anyone tags you in a picture and story on Instagram and Facebook. Collaboration Applications: Collaboration applications are those applications that allow updates to the same document at the same time by different users, such as Google Docs. Online Gaming: Online gaming applications are those applications that help to establish bi-direction communication between multiple users. Examples of real-time online games are Pubg, Call of Duty, Among Us, Fortnite, etc. Features of Socket.IO Reliability: It relies on Engine.IO, which establishes a long-running polling connection before attempting to upgrade to better "testing" transports, such as WebSocket. Auto-reconnection support: The disconnected client keeps trying to reconnect until the server is available again. Disconnection detection: The heartbeat mechanism of the socket.io is engine.io. It lets both the server and the client know when no one else is responding. Binary support: Any serializable data structures can be emitted, including: ArrayBuffer and Blob in the browser ArrayBuffer and Buffer in Node.js Multiplexing support: Socket.IO allows you to create multiple namespaces to separate concerns within your application, which will act as separate communication channels but share the same underlying connection. Event Handling Socket.io serves based on some events. The socket object can be used to access some reserved events on the server-side as well as the offline side. These are the following server-side events: Join Message Reconnect Disconnect Leave Connect Ping These are the following client-side events: Connect Connect_error Connect_timeout Reconnect Example In this example, we have used connection and disconnection events to log-in when a user has connected and disconnected. 
var app=require ('express') ();
var http=require(' http ').Server(app);
var io=require(' socket.io ') (http);

app.get(' / ', function(req,res) {
   res.sendfile(' index.html ');
});

io.on(' connection ', function(socket){
   console.log(' user connected ');    

// Send a message after a timeout of four seconds
   setTimeout(function() {
      socket.send(' Sent a message 4seconds after connection! ');
   }, 4000);

   socket.on(' disconnect ', function () {
      console.log(' user disconnected ');
   });
});

http.listen(3000, function() {
   console.log('listening on *:3000');
});
 After Four seconds when the client connects, the server will send the client an event called a message. Now, we have to handle this event on behalf of our client, so modify the index.html script tag to include the following code: 
< script >
   var socket = io();
   socket.on(' message ', function(data){ document.write( data ) } );
< / script >
 When the server sends the message event to the client after 4 seconds, the client will handle it and produce the output. This output is shown in the screenshot below. Next TopicSynchronous Motor ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
