https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/#main
GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks
GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Gblog Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies As the placement season is back, GeeksforGeeks is here to help you crack the interview. We have selected some most commonly asked and MUST DO… Read More 5 Guidelines For Software Developers to Perform Better in Their Job If you have spent some time in software development then there is a question for you… Where do you spend most of your time? Do… Read More GBlog TechTips 5 Reasons Why Learning Coding is Beneficial For Students Indeed, Coding for students has been a much-discussed topic for a long time and after the advent of the new education scheme that allows young… Read More GBlog Java Programming Examples The following Java section contains a wide range of Java programs from basic to intermediate level. The examples are categorized as basic, string, array, collections,… Read More Java Java Programs How Git Version Control Works? Git… The most popular and common tool used by programmers in the programming world. Forget about this tool for a moment and just look at… Read More GBlog Modify an array by sorting after reversal of bits of each array element Medium Given an array arr[] consisting of N integers, the task is to modify the array by replacing each array element with the number obtained by… Read More array-rearrange base-conversion binary-representation Arrays Mathematical Sorting Modify a sentence by reversing order of occurrences of all Palindrome Words Easy Given a string S representing a sentence, the task is to reverse the order of all palindromic words present in the sentence. Examples: Input: S… Read More palindrome Reverse Searching Strings Check if two vectors are collinear or not Given six integers representing the x, y, and z coordinates of two vectors, the task is to check if the two given vectors are collinear… Read More Geometric-Lines Mathematical School Programming Quick Links Courses at GeeksforGeeks Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Internships at GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice Program to find the Magnitude of a Vector Basic Given three integers representing the X, Y, and Z coordinates of a 3-D vector, the task is to find the magnitude of that vector. Example:… Read More Mathematical School Programming Program to calculate Kinetic Energy and Potential Energy Basic Given three integers M, H, and V representing the mass, velocity, and height of an object respectively the task is to calculate its Kinetic Energy… Read More Mathematical School Programming Dunzo Interview Experience for Software Engineer 2 Online Assessment for SE2: 3 Question: Time 100 minutes Compute Before Matrix from the given After matrixhttps://stackoverflow.com/questions/65510354/matrix-summation-challenge Question-Related to: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/max-sum-of-m-non-overlapping-subarrays-of-size-k Fetch Data from an API, with… Read More Dunzo Marketing Interview Experiences IBM Internship Interview Experience IBM visited our campus for internships. Round 1(Online Test): The test contained some logical questions and games. Round 2(Technical Round): Tell me about yourself. What… Read More IBM IBM-interview-experience Marketing On-Campus Internship Interview Experiences Microsoft Interview Experience for SDE (Off-Campus) I applied to Microsoft’s Off-Campus full-time SDE drive on their career website. After a week I received a link for the exam. Round 1(Online test):… Read More Marketing Microsoft Off-Campus Interview Experiences Generate all possible permutations of words in a Sentence Medium Given a string S, the task is to print permutations of all words in a sentence. Examples: Input: S = “sky is blue”Output: sky is… Read More permutation Python list-programs python-list-functions Combinatorial Python Programs Strings Python program to sort Palindrome Words in a Sentence Medium Given a string S representing a sentence, the task is to reorder all the palindromic words present in the sentence in sorted order. Examples: Input:… Read More palindrome Python list-programs Python Programs Sorting Strings Quadratic equation whose roots are reciprocal to the roots of given equation Given three integers A, B, and C representing the coefficients of a quadratic equation Ax2 + Bx + C = 0, the task is to… Read More root Mathematical Pattern Searching Page 1 of 6,03112345...102030...»Last » Quick Links Courses at GeeksforGeeks Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Internships at GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Sneak Peek to Geeks Summer Carnival – Pay Less, Learn More! February 1, 2021 100 Days of Code – A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced February 1, 2021 Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job – Complete Interview Preparation February 1, 2021 Recently Asked Interview Questions in Product Based Companies February 1, 2021 Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … February 1, 2021 What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE CS Notes according to GATE 2021 syllabus Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
