https://www.javatpoint.com/google-input-tools
Google Input Tools - Javatpoint
Google Input Tools - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Google Input Tools Google Input Tools is an impressive tool that allows creating a virtual keyboard interface in different languages. Using Google Input Tools, you can generate an output of your input words and phrases into any preferred language. This tool supports more than 90+ languages and helps to convert in a wide range of global dialects online. Moreover, the tool remembers the sentence or phrase improvements and stores a customized dictionary to include unusual words, phrases, and names. Advantages of using Google Input Tools It supports multiple languages. It is easy to use and has a clean user-interface. It is a free tool that can be used both online and offline. You can easily integrate it with the Chrome browser to use online. It allows us to type text through handwriting by drawing characters with our fingers. This feature is currently only available in its Chrome extension. Convert text sound/phonetics to the best match text languages, i.e., "namaste" will convert to "" in Hindi. Google is now officially stopped supporting Google Input Tools offline, and it is only promoting input tools online versions. You have to visit Input Tools Online and select a language in which you want the output of your input text words, and start typing. You can type the text words either using an on-screen virtual keyboard of that specific language or using your device's physical keyboard. After that, copy and paste the resultant output to your respective place where you want. How to setup Google Input Tools? There are two different ways to set up Google Input Tools in your personal computer, either online (using its extension on the browser) or offline (by downloading and installing its setup). You can also go for its Android app for your Android smartphone. The time required to set up Google Input Tools on your PC depends on your preferred language and layout. Setting Google Input Tools using browser extension (online) Open your Chrome browser and search for google input tools extension in the Google search tool. Click on the top-most result that is Google Input Tools extension - Google Chrome - Download. From the resultant webpage, click on the Add to Chrome button to add the Google Input Tools extension on your Chrome browser. It will check the supported version of the extension for your Chrome browser. It will ask for permission to read and change all your data on the website that you visit. Click on the Add extension button to add it. You will see a pop-up appears after the successful addition of Google Input Tools on your browser. Click on the Input Tools icon and then Extension Options. It gives the different options of languages to set up and adds Input Tools you preferred. Now, select the language you preferred and add Input Tools. You can add one or even more different languages to your extension. You can also be able to edit and change these options for your browser later. To add Input Tools language, click on the language that you prefer and then click on the arrow icon. Here, we are selecting Hindi. Once you choose your preferred language and click on the arrow icon, your selected language will appear on the right side of the interface as a selected input Tools. Now, click on the Input Tools extension (plug-in) icon on your browser to display all your selected Input Tools. Choose its type from different options as input text format. Let's see the example and use of Google Input Tools; here we are selected ?????? (Hindi) as input tool. We will type all the alphabets and words in the English language via our laptop's keyboard that gets converted into the Hindi language as an output. How to use Google Input Tools? Once you select your preferred language from the Google Input Tools extension icon, you can type your text either by enabling a virtual keyboard for that specific language or a physical keyboard. Type your text words in English, and the input tools convert them into your selected language through the Google Input Tools extension. The virtual on-screen keyboard works similarly to your PC keyboard. Additionally, Google Input Tools also allows using your physical keyboard. Since each language has different character settings on a physical keyboard, it is suggested to use a virtual keyboard, particularly design for each language. While clicking on the Google Input Tools icon, it displays a drop-down menu containing various features to access it. It includes enabling and disabling Input tools, showing and hiding the virtual keyboard of the selected language, and switching to different languages. There are four different ways to type a text using Google Input Tools. The first method is probably the most preferred and popular way to use Input Tools. In this method, you will type the words in the English language that sounds in your desired output language using a physical keyboard. For example, you can type "nameste" in the English language that sounds "" in Hindi. The second method to use Google Input Tools and type text content using an on-screen virtual keyboard. While launching the virtual keyboard, it displays a keyboard layout of keys of your preferred language. All the keys and symbols well appear and allow to type text quickly. The third method is also similar to the second one to type textual content. But this method supports some specific languages as it suggests possible words and phrases. The suggested words and phrases depending on the length of your sentence and may vary in style. You will get many suggestions that help to understand resources and make your input more accurate. In the fourth method, you can type your text using a pencil tool. Using a pencil, you can draw an alphabet or letter in the text field. Based on the letter drown, the tool identifies text and displays words on the screen accordingly. How to enable and disable Google Input Tools To enable Google Input Tools online on your browser, click on its icon on your browser and select the preferred language and input style. When the input type gets selected, it appears as checkmarks. To disable Google Input Tools on your browser, click on its extension icon and then look for the option Turn off. Click on the Turn off the option to disable Google Input Tools. How do I install Google Input Tools offline? Google is now officially stopped supporting Google Input Tools offline installer, and it only promoting input tools online versions. It means you can't be able to download its offline setup from its official website. There are so many software tools that allow inputting text into users' native languages. However, Google Input Tools is the most favorable tool among users due to its user-friendly features. However, you can find a different source on the internet that is still providing Google Input Tools offline installer. One such website is inputtoolsoffline, from where you can download input tools for offline use. You will find different language's offline input installers, including Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil, Marathi, Arabic, Greek, Nepali, Russian, etc. Stepwise installation process: Visit the inputtoolsoffline.com website, from there downloads and install the primary offline installer of Google Input Tools first. After that, download and install the respective native language input installer which you want to install on your computer. For example, we are going to install Google's Hindi input tools on our device. We will download the primary installer and Hindi offline installer. 1. Double-click on the primary GoogleInputTools application installer, click on the Yes button on the pop-up window to start the installation. 2. Click on the Finish button to complete the primary input tools installation process. 3. Now, double-click on the native (Hindi) language GoogleInputTools application installer, click on the Yes button on the pop-up window to start the installation. 4. Click on the Finish button to complete the native input tools installation process. Input Tools is successfully installed on your computer; you can check and change the language by clicking "Windows + space bar". You can also check and change the language by clicking on the language icon at the windows' bottom-left screen. Check the working of Google Input Tools Hindi offline: You can check the working of Hindi Google Input Tools offline on your doc files. Simply open your doc file on which you want to type and enable the native Hindi language input tools. Now type whatever you want on it. You have to type words in English that sound the Hindi language ("nameste" to ""). Google Input Tools for Android device (Google Indic Keyboard) To use Google Input Tools on your Android smartphone or tablet, you have to download the Google Indic Keyboard app from Google Play Store. The app allows you to type words in your native language for messages, composing an email, and other users on your Android phone. This app currently supports keyboard for the following languages: English Hindi Bengali Punjabi Assamese Gujarati Marathi Odia Kannada Malayalam Tamil Telugu If you read your native language on your phone, then only the above-mentioned keyboard of the app will support your phone. Google Indic Keyboard allows the different modes to input words and phrases. Transliteration mode: In this method, you will type the words in the English language that sounds in your native language output using a physical keyboard. For example, you can type "nameste" in the English language that sounds "" in Hindi. Native Keyboard mode: You can type words and phrases directly to your native script using the keyboard. Handwriting mode: You can use handwriting skills to write directly on your phone screen. This feature is currently available for Hindi only. Hinglish mode: If you choose "Hindi" as a native input language, your English keyboard suggests both Hinglish and Hindi terms. How to enable Google Indic Keyboard and set it as the default keyboard? To set up the Google Indic Keyboard on your Android smartphone, follow the below-mentioned steps: On Android 5.x and newer versions: Open the device Settings Go to language & region. Look for the keyboard & input method and click on it. Go to the Current keyboard and select English & Indic Language (Google Indic Keyboard). You can also change this setting later while typing in the input box to its default input mode. It can be done by clicking on the keyboard icon that appears at the bottom right of the screen. On Android 4.x versions: Open the device Settings Go to language & input. Under the keyboard & input methods section, look for the Google Indic Keyboard. Now, click on the Default keyboard and select Google Indic Keyboard from the pop-up screen. Next TopicVipTools ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
