https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-unlock-scroll-lock-in-excel
How to unlock scroll lock in Excel - javatpoint
How to unlock scroll lock in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to unlock scroll lock in Excel? Scroll lock is a special feature of Excel that controls the behavior of arrow keys in Excel. When scroll lock is enabled, the arrow keys scroll the entire worksheet area instead of cells. Conversely, when the scroll lock is disabled, the arrow keys start working with cells and can move in any direction in Excel cells. Scroll lock is a powerful feature that usually enables the reading mode in Excel. This means that when you are reading or analyzing, enable screen lock for a better experience. But you have to enable or disable scroll lock from window settings instead of MS Excel. By default, scroll lock is disabled (OFF) in Microsoft Excel. Unlocking a scroll lock means disable or turn off the scroll lock. In this chapter, we will brief you if the scroll lock is enabled, then how one can disable it on different operating systems. Why is scroll lock used? In MS Excel, scroll lock is used to move/scroll up, down, left, and right on your worksheet but not in cells. When the scroll lock is enabled, the arrow keys do not work the same as they usually do. In MS Excel, scroll lock is used to control the behavior of arrow keys. It helps to scroll the entire worksheet using arrow keys but not cells. How to identify that scroll lock is enabled? You can easily recognize that the scroll lock is enabled or disabled. On the Excel dashboard, look in the status bar at the bottom. If the scroll lock is ON, Scroll Lock will show in the status bar, as showing in the below screenshot. Otherwise not. If the scroll lock is OFF/disabled, nothing will appear in the status bar, as you see in the below screenshot. There might be a case when the scroll lock is enabled but its status is not displaying in the status bar. This is because your status bar is customized, and you have not given permission to show the scroll lock status. Despite this, you can find that the scroll lock is enabled if your arrow key is scrolling the entire Excel sheet rather than moving to the next cell. What happens if scroll lock is enabled When the scroll lock is enabled, the control moves to each direction (left, right, bottom, up) using the arrow keys but not next to the selected cell. For navigating to another cell from the current cell, you have to move to that particular cell using the mouse cursor manually. Basically, scroll lock enables the reading mode where you can just move up-down, left-right. Conversely, when the scroll lock is disabled, users have full control over data. Using the keyboard arrow key, a user can move to the next cell and go down, forward, backward as well. Enable/Disable scroll lock Enable the screen lock and see how the scroll lock works. Unfortunately, it is not possible to enable/disable the scroll lock from Excel. You have to enable it from the keyboard. But physical keyboards usually do not contain the scroll lock key. In this scenario, you need to use virtual keyboard as every operating system has a virtual keyboard. Using which you can easily enable/disable the scroll lock. Following are the steps for different Window versions to ON/OFF the scroll lock. For Window 10 Most of the keyboards have the scroll lock key, but some are not. In case your keyboard also does not have a scroll lock key, following are the steps to get an on-screen keyboard (virtual keyboard) containing all keys. "On Windows 10, the scroll lock button key is named as ScrLK." These steps are for Windows 10 users. Click Start and go to Settings > Ease of Access On the left panel of the window, scroll down and click on the Keyboard. Now, turn on the On-Screen Keyboard toggle button. When you turned on the on-screen keyboard, a keyboard will display on your computer screen, as showing below. On this keyboard, you will find an ScrLK key; click on it to enable the scroll lock. You can disable the scroll lock from the same place by again clicking the enabled scroll lock key (ScrLK) on this virtual keyboard. Note: A shortcut key Window + Ctrl + O is used to directly open the on-screen (virtual) keyboard, from where you can rapidly enable and disable the scroll lock. For Window 7 Following are the steps to get the on-screen keyboard on Windows 7 operating system. On Windows 7, the scroll lock button key is named as slk. Follow these steps. Click Start and go to All Programs > Accessories > Ease of Access > Keyboard Now, click the On-Screen Keyboard button, a keyboard will display on your computer screen. On this virtual keyboard, click on the slk button to enable the scroll lock. From the same place, you can disable the scroll lock by again clicking the enabled scroll lock key (slk) on this virtual keyboard. Troubleshoot scroll lock in Excel Sometimes, scroll lock status does not display in the Excel status bar because your status bar is customized. We can troubleshoot the scroll lock and check whether the it is on or off. You can also allow it to show in status bar when enabled. We have some simple steps to troubleshoot the scroll lock in Excel status bar. Follow them: Step 1: Right-click on the Excel status bar that will show you a list containing several options will open. Here, you can get the status of Scroll lock. See that the Scroll lock is OFF currently. Step 2: Uncheck the Scroll Lock in this list, it will not show in status bar even if the scroll lock is enabled. Step 3: Press the Window + Ctrl + O key to open the virtual keyboard and turn on the scroll lock from here. Step 4: See that the scroll lock enable status is not showing in the status bar. Step 5: Again, right-click on the Excel status bar. See that the Scroll lock is ON even when the scroll lock is not showing in the status bar. In this same list, mark the Scroll Lock once again to allows it to show the scroll lock status in the status bar. Customize the status bar You can customize the Excel status bar according to you. You can set which option will show in the status bar and which one is not when enabled. Mark these options allow them to show their status in the status bar. By unchecking any of these options, status will not show in the status bar. Shortcut key to ON/OFF for DELL computer users There is a shortcut key for Dell users to turn on and off the scroll lock, i.e., Fn+S. Fn is a function key. Press the Fn+S shortcut key to enable and disable the scroll lock in Dell laptops directly without following any process. Shortcut key to ON/OFF for HP computer users There is a shortcut key for HP users to turn on and off the scroll lock, i.e., Fn+C. Fn is a function key. Press the Fn+C shortcut key to enable and disable the scroll lock in HP laptops directly without following any procedure. Shortcut key to ON/OFF for MAC users Mac also offers the shortcut key to enable and disable the scroll lock without following any lengthy procedure. Shift+F14 is a shortcut key for Mac users. Using this shortcut key, you can directly turn ON/OFF the scroll lock on the Mac operating system. Next TopicWhat is a cell in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
