https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/5-reasons-why-learning-coding-is-beneficial-for-students/
5 Reasons Why Learning Coding is Beneficial For Students - GeeksforGeeks
5 Reasons Why Learning Coding is Beneficial For Students - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Socket Programming in C/C++ GET and POST requests using Python Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Fast I/O for Competitive Programming 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Working with csv files in Python Types of Software Testing Working with PDF files in Python OOPs | Object Oriented Design Technical Scripter Event 2020 By GeeksforGeeks XML parsing in Python Difference between FAT32, exFAT, and NTFS File System Supervised and Unsupervised learning Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid 30 Days to Form a New Habit of Coding – Are You In? Frontend vs Backend GATE CS 2021 (Revised) Syllabus Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Getting started with Machine Learning Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 5 Reasons Why Learning Coding is Beneficial For Students Last Updated : 02 Apr, 2021 Indeed, Coding for students has been a much-discussed topic for a long time and after the advent of the new education scheme that allows young minds to learn coding from earlier stages, the topic has again come in a positive light. Even various IT giants such as Google, Amazon, etc. are promoting the culture of coding for students and are coming with up various programs & resources to make things convenient for them. Meanwhile, there are still some doubts in the minds of individuals that is it really worthwhile to teach young minds (or you can say school students) how to code. Firstly, teaching the younger ones to code doesn’t only signify the process of empowering them with some technical skills such as computer programming, basic application development, etc. but it builds the foundation of their overall development and teaches them various worthwhile life and career skills such as critical & abstract thinking, persistence, entrepreneurial skills and many more. There are many ways through which students can get into the world of coding such as online resources, boot camps, school curriculum, etc. You can also opt to explore the GeeksforGeeks School Learning initiative which is solely created for the school students to teach them computer programming and other tech skills. Here, in this article, we’ll let you know about several major reasons that can be taken into consideration by all the school students for getting started with Coding: 1. Helps to Build Problem-Solving & Logical-Thinking Skills Coding is one of the best ways to develop and enhance the skills of problem-solving and critical thinking among the students. It teaches them how to tackle and solve problems efficiently as it allows young minds to learn the approach of breaking down a large problem into smaller chunks to solve it conveniently. Furthermore, through coding, apart from following the pre-existing methods or solutions, students are allowed to do abstract thinking and come up with their own approaches to solve a particular problem. Though it is also required to acknowledge their efforts of solving a problem to enhance their confidence. Needless to say, these skills not only help them to become a better coder but also lay the foundation of their strong academic and professional career for the future. 2. Improves and Encourages Creativity We all know that the young ones have the utmost level of curiosity and when this curiosity meets with one of the most influential tech skills i.e., Coding, it encourages creativity among them at an extreme level. Once a student gets into the world of coding then whenever he/she plays a video game or uses any other entertainment app, he often thinks to build the same on his own. And even sometimes, they come up with something outside the box in their minds as coding provides them a suitable environment for creative thinking. Moreover, the creativity skills generated through coding among them not only help them to build optimal programs but also leads them to a pathway of possessing various other entrepreneurial skills. 3. Teaches the Practical Application of Maths As they said – the best way to learn anything is to Learn by Doing!! And what can be better for the school-goers than to implement and visualize all those maths concepts in real-world situations? Indeed, Coding makes maths more engaging and interesting for them. Whether it be of using arithmetic expressions or number systems or multiplication tables or any other concept, coding allows them to play with all these concepts in their own way through their codes. It also allows them to do various experimentation with mathematics through coding. And, the implementation of maths doesn’t last only for these basic concepts instead maths is an integral part of the coding world, and it will benefit them a lot in their future endeavors as well. 4. Allows Students to Better Understand the Technologies Around Them In today’s time, we all are growing up with lots of technologies surrounding us whether it be smartphones or video games, or any other. Meanwhile, it becomes quite preferable to make younger ones aware of these technologies and what made them work along with their proper & relevant use. And Coding is the most recommended approach for them to explore and better understand these technologies around them. However, it doesn’t necessarily mean to teach them about the core development of these technologies at such earlier stages, but it simply means to at least make them aware of how things work and what is the science behind these technologies. Moreover, coding helps the students to develop the skill of perseverance as well to reach their goals. 5. Coding is the Demand & Need of the Future! Last but not least – Coding is the most demanded skill of the industry at present and the demand seems to be rising rapidly in the future as well. Moreover, almost every trending technology whether it be related to Artificial Intelligence or Data Science, or any other requires you to have at least some basic knowledge of programming or coding. Hence, it is recommended for the students that if they’re showing even a little interest in technologies or similar facets, then get introduced to the coding world for various ravishing future career opportunities. Furthermore, students who learn to code develop various other crucial skills also such as consistency, algorithmic thinking, etc. that further help them abundantly during their academic as well as a professional career. So these are several most considerable reasons for all young minds to learn coding. However, there are various other reasons also such as academic success, competitive advantage, etc. that can also be taken into consideration. Meanwhile, the only thing for all the students to keep in mind is that be patient & consistent and instead of taking it as a complex subject, try to enjoy this entire journey of the Coding world!! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous Java Programming Examples Next last_page 5 Guidelines For Software Developers to Perform Better in Their Job Recommended Articles Page : 5 Reasons Why Online Learning is the Future 29, May 20 5 Reasons Why Hackathons are Important in a Coder’s Life 22, Apr 20 10 Reasons Why SEO is Important for a Website 07, Aug 19 12 Reasons Why You Should Learn Python in 2019 23, Sep 19 8 Reasons Why You Should Switch To Kotlin From Java 07, Jan 20 10 Reasons Why You Should Choose Python For Big Data 03, May 20 7 Reasons Why Code Refactoring is Important in Software Development 05, Sep 20 7 Major Reasons Why Your Android App is Performing Slow - Must Read For Developers! 05, Dec 20 5 Reasons Why Enterprise Level Brands Should Invest in Augmented Reality Apps 16, Dec 20 5 Reasons Why You Should Go For A Digital Portfolio 15, Mar 21 Why Internships are Important for Engineering Students or Freshers? 20, Aug 19 Why GeeksforGeeks is an Essential Platform for CS/IT Students? 19, Jul 20 10 Tips For Students Who Are New To Online Learning 03, Jul 20 Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks 06, Dec 19 Why Should I Learn Coding? 23, Aug 19 Why learning C Programming is a must? 08, Feb 19 Why is Python the Best-Suited Programming Language for Machine Learning? 27, Aug 19 Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library 17, Feb 17 Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning 23, Jan 19 How to Start Learning Machine Learning? 11, Sep 19 Difference Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning 26, May 20 Need of Data Structures and Algorithms for Deep Learning and Machine Learning 14, Oct 20 10 reasons to learn Python in 2019 05, Apr 19 Top 10 Reasons to Learn C++ 26, Apr 19 Article Contributed By : madhur912 @madhur912 Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GBlog Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in GBlog How To Prepare For InfyTQ (Infosys Certification Exam)? Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top 10 Python Developers Skills That You Must Know How Git Version Control Works? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? More related articles in GBlog Introduction to Hill Climbing | Artificial Intelligence Downloading files from web using Python Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Introduction of Programming Paradigms Why REST API is Important to Learn? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
