https://www.javatpoint.com/lithium-ion-batteries
Lithium-Ion batteries - Javatpoint
Lithium-Ion batteries - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Lithium-Ion batteries A lithium-ion battery is a type of battery used as a charging device to power electronic devices. It is considered a rechargeable battery that can be charged multiple times. It acts as a power source for the portable electronic devices commonly used in military and aerospace applications. Lithium-ion batteries have an average lifetime of around two years. It should not be confused with lithium batteries. Lithium batteries are not rechargeable, while lithium-ion batteries are rechargeable batteries. The lithium's ability to operate even in very low temperatures has increased lithium-ion batteries' popularity in various areas. History The battery was invented by the American polymath named Benjamin Franklin in the year 1749. After that, around 1800, the Italian chemist and physicist named Alessandro Voltaapproved the battery's invention. Daniell cell was the first cell invented in 1836 that was considered as the practical source of energy. In 1985, a Japanese chemist named Akira Yoshino developed the prototype of the lithium-ion battery. His build prototype was based on the research of other scientists during the last 10 to 15 years. Around 1991, a commercial lithium-ion battery was developed by a Japanese multinational company named Sony and Asahi Kasei. The developed product was developed from the prototype build by Akira Yoshino. Working of a lithium ion battery Let's discuss the components and working of a lithium-ion battery. Structure The structure of a lithium-ion battery is shown below: Components A battery consists of three components, two electrodes, and an electrolyte. The electrodes are named cathode and anode, while the electrolyte is the solution in which the movement of charged ions takes place from one electrode to another. The cathode and anode of a battery are positive and negative. Process in a Lithium-ion battery As discussed, a lithium-ion battery is a rechargeable battery. It means it comprises of two processes, charging and discharging. The charging state of a battery provides electric current to the external connected circuitry. Discharging The lithium ions move from the negative electrode (anode) to the positive electrode (cathode) provides energy to the external circuit. The movement of ions takes place through the electrolyte. It is defined as the discharging state of a battery. The process loses energy because it is providing energy to the external circuit. Charging Similarly, the movement of charged ions back to the anode is defined as the battery's charging state. The charging is a process to gain back the energy. The external voltage source provides energy to the battery during the charging process. The positive electrode (cathode) provides lithium ions to the anode (negative electrode), moving through the electrolyte. The battery stores this energy from an external source. Such energy is utilized when an external circuit is connected to the battery. Again the discharging occurs when the battery supplies energy to the external circuit. The cycle goes on to recharge the battery. Thus, we can say that lithium-ion batteries can be charged multiple times. Material Material signifies the use of materials used for the construction of cathode, anode, and electrolyte. Positive Electrode The material for a positive electrode is generally a metal oxide. It includes examples such as lithium cobalt oxide, lithium manganese, etc. It means that the cathode material is the metal oxide with added lithium. It releases lithium ions during the discharging process to provide energy to the external circuit. The lithium-ion battery helps in increasing the potential difference between the cathode and anode, resulting in higher voltage. Negative Electrode The negative electrode or anode uses graphite powder as the material. The graphite powder is coated on the foil made of cooper as the electrode. Graphite is preferred as the anode material due to the following reasons: High conductivity It can easily place lithium ions between its layers. The reversible process of a lithium-ion battery is maintained for thousands of cycles. Provides sufficient energy density Reliable Safe material Binders Binders are the materials to hold the electrode material particles together. It contributes a very small percentage of the battery's weight. It is an essential part of a battery that provides certain benefits, such as safety enhancement and improved capacity. Electrolyte The electrolyte is a lithium salt that is used as a conductor. The ions move from one electrode to another through the electrolyte. The electrolyte's primary role in the lithium-ion battery is to act as a medium for the movement of lithium ions between the cathode and anode. Working Let's discuss the working of a lithium-ion battery. A chemical reaction continuously works inside a battery for its working. The battery is dead without any chemical reaction inside it. We know electricity is the flow of electrons from a negative terminal to the positive terminal. The flow of electrons comes from the element lithium present inside a battery. The lithium is present at the negative terminal or anode of the battery. It is present in between the layers of the carbon graphite. The structure of graphite keeps the lithium inside its layers. It works as a stable storage space for the lithium atoms. The lithium atoms give up their outer electron from their outer orbit. When it finds a path, lithium moves from the negative side to the positive side. When a lithium atoms group leaves the graphite, it causes the flow of electrons from the anode to the cathode. Similarly, the reverse process happens during recharging. The charges provide higher force to the flow of electrons in the reverse direction. The electrons from the cathode kick back the lithium ions towards the anode. The lithium atoms are forced onto the graphite and fix back into the layers of the graphite. Types of Lithium-ion Batteries There are various types of lithium-ion batteries, such as lithium manganese oxide, lithium cobalt battery, etc. Lithium batteries are used in most of the applications in daily life. Lithium batteries have various advantages, such as lightweight, long lifetime, and high energy density, make them a great choice. Lithium Manganese Oxide The lithium manganese oxide has manganese oxide as the material of the cathode. It has a low internal resistance, high thermal stability, better safety, and enhanced current flow. The benefit of low resistance is that it enables fast charging. Lithium Cobalt The lithium cobalt Oxide battery is used in a digital camera, computers, and mobile devices due to its high specific energy. The material at the cathode is cobalt oxide, while the material at the anode is graphite carbon. But, it has some disadvantages, such as shorter life and low thermal stability. Lithium Iron Phosphate The lithium iron phosphate has phosphate as the cathode material. The advantage of using such batteries is good thermal stability, long life, and high current. It is proffered for applications that require proper safety and a long life span, such as electric motorcycles. Lithium Nickel Manganese Cobalt Oxide The combination of three (Nickel Manganese Cobalt) is considered the cathode's best material for a lithium-ion battery. The percentage contribution of the Nickel, Manganese, and Cobalt are 60, 20, and 20.Nickel has the advantage of high specific energy, while manganese has low internal resistance. Lithium Nickel Cobalt Aluminum Oxide The primary uses of lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide are its use in electric powertrains. It offers high energy density and a long life span. The disadvantages of such batteries over other types of lithium-ion batteries are the low safety and high cost. Its performance is continuously monitored for the safety of the powertrains. Lithium Titanate Lithium titanate battery can fast recharge. The titanate battery's primary issue is the low energy density compared to other types of lithium-ion batteries. But, the energy density is higher than the non-lithium ion batteries. The common application includes aerospace, power backups, etc. Advantages of Lithium-ion batteries The advantages of Lithium-ion batteries are listed below: Long life The average life of lithium-ion batteries is around two to three years. But, depending on the storage conditions, its life can be extended. For example, a lithium-ion battery degrades faster when kept discharging. It is due to unwanted chemical reactions. It will work better if stored in a charged state. It means that an average lithium-ion battery can survive upto 300 to 500 charge cycles. The increasing use of such batteries has resulted in the development of various batteries with a longer lifespan. For example, Master-volt lithium-ion battery has a lifespan of more than 2000 charge cycles. Fast charging Today, ultra-fast lithium-ion batteries are available that require very little time to charge. It means that such batteries have low downtime compared to other batteries. It also saves energy and cost due to its low power consumption. Low maintenance There is no memory present in lithium-ion batteries, due to which it requires less maintenance. It also has a low self-discharging ability. Hence, it is often used in fuel gauge applications. Longer run time The performance of lithium-ion batteries does not decline during its discharging state compared to lead-acid batteries. Safer use Lithium-ion batteries are safer to operate as long as the battery is free from defects and damage. It is a safer environmental alternative compared to other fossil fuel alternatives. The use of such batteries in automobiles has also reduced the number of carbon emissions. High energy density It is one of the essential advantages of lithium-ion batteries. It has the highest energy density as compared to other types of batteries in use today. The amount of voltage delivered by the lithium cells is also three times higher than the other technologies used to deliver power to portable devices. Various types available Lithium-ion batteries are available in various types. It means that for a particular technology, we can use the required battery type. Some types of lithium-ion batteries provide high current levels, while some provide high energy density. It depends on the requirement of various technologies. No priming required Some of the rechargeable batteries require priming after their first charge cycle. Priming refers to the process to improve the battery's performance. It is commonly carried out on lithium-based batteries. After prolonged storage, the electrolyte can settle at the bottom of the battery. Hence, priming is carried out to enhance its functioning. Disadvantages of Lithium ion batteries The disadvantages of Lithium-ion batteries are listed below: Battery weight A charged battery has more weight than discharged battery due to the amount of energy present in it. But, compared to the other batteries of the same size, lithium-ion batteries are much lighter. Proper storage required A lithium ion battery should be stored in a charged state. It is because the chemical reaction during the discharged state can damage the battery. The minimum required charged percentage of a battery for better storage is around 40%. The suitable temperature to store such batteries lies between 5 degrees and 20 degrees Celsius or at room temperature. Expensive recycling method The recycling of lithium-ion batteries is complex as compared to lead-acid batteries. Most of the batteries can be recycled, but this leads to the recycling process's increased cost. The percentage of recycling varies on the used separation technology. Not suitable at high temperatures The latest developed lithium-ion batteries can operate under temperature conditions upto 150 degrees Celsius. For higher temperatures, lithium metal batteries are used, which are non-rechargeable. The higher temperatures can damage the lithium-ion batteries due to overheating. Limited Transportation Most shipping companies prohibit the bulk shipment of lithium-ion batteries. It is due to the risk associated with it. Cost The cost of lithium-ion batteries is much higher than other types of batteries, such as nickel-cadmium. It is due to its high energy density and large current handling capacity. Applications of Lithium-Ion batteries The applications of lithium-ion batteries are listed below: Solar power Storage The use of solar power is increasing in the last few years due to the abundance of available sunlight in particular areas, such as deserts. Lithium-ion batteries are used to store solar power for its use when there is no sunlight in those areas. The solar panels produce low resistance charging, which is a basic requirement of lithium-ion batteries. Hence, it is considered the best option for power storage. Source of vehicle power Most car manufacturers rely on lithium-ion batteries s the source of power for vehicles. Such batteries provide considerable power for long journeys for the last few years. As compared to traditional batteries, a lithium-ion battery comes with reducing weight. Power Backups The power backups or UPS protects the connected appliances from sudden power loss. It provides instant energy to the appliances when there is no source of power present. It also acts as an emergency power backup system for computers, medical equipment, etc. Mobility Equipment Lightweight lithium-ion batteries offer fast charging, a long life span, low self-discharge, and other mobility equipment advantages. Safety Hazards There are some safety hazards to ensure the safe handling and usage of lithium-ion batteries. It is listed below: Dropping and crunching on a battery can damage the battery. High temperatures can damage the battery due to overheating. Avoid the storage of lithium ion batteries in hot environmental conditions. Keep the batteries away from the contact of direct sunlight. Keep such batteries away from inflammable substances. Avoid the overcharging of lithium ion batteries. For long and safe storage, remove the battery from the particular device. The fresh and old batteries should be kept separately. Do not over discharge a lithium ion battery. Next TopicPID Controller ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
