https://www.javatpoint.com/java-runtime-environment-jre-or-jdk-must-be-available
A Java Runtime Environment JRE Or JDK Must Be Available - Javatpoint
A Java Runtime Environment JRE Or JDK Must Be Available - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev A Java Runtime Environment JRE Or JDK Must Be Available The Java programming language is a platform-independent language (WORA) because it does not depend on any platform type. When a Java code is compiled, it is compiled into byte code through JIT (Just-in-Time) compiler, and the byte code is independent of the platform. To execute the bytecode, a virtual machine is required, and it is known as Java Virtual Machine or JVM. The Java Virtual Machine converts the byte code into machine code. The JVM also enables other programming languages to execute their codes. The JVM is a virtual machine that needs a runtime environment where it can work, and that is provided by JRE (Java Runtime Environment). Thus, JRE provides a runtime environment to JVM so that it can execute the bytecode. Consequently, both JVM and JRE are contained in a kit which is known as JDK or Java Development Kit. Thus, JDK is a development kit that consists of such tools. In this section, we will cover what is JRE or JDK and why there is a need to use it. JRE (Java Runtime Environment) Also written as Java RTE. JRE is an implementation of Java that provides an executable environment to the JVM so that it can execute the Java code. JRE contains a set of necessary libraries and software tools that can be used by JVM in order to build Java applications. It takes the code, uses the essential Java libraries and combines it with the code, and enables the JVM to execute the code. JDK (Java Development Kit) JDK is the container that contains JVM, JRE, and other essential development tools for developing Java applications. It is an environment that allows Java code to get executed. Apart from JVM and JRE, it also contains an interpreter (or loader), a java compiler known as javac, Java documentation, i.e., JavaDoc, an archiver, i.e., jar, and some other tools. That is the reason it is known as a kit. The complete JDK architecture can be understood by looking at the below image: Is it necessary to have JRE or JDK? Such a question seems like interrogating "Is oxygen necessary for a human body to function?". JRE or JDK is oxygen to a Java code without which a Java code cannot be executed. Thus, it is necessary that JDK or JRE must be installed on a system where a Java code needs to be executed. Rather the user has the choice of installing either JDK or JRE on the system. It's the user requirement to select the one. But it is beneficial to download and install the complete Java setup that means downloading the JDK because the JDK contains all the development tools that users may require to download separately later on. Also, JVM, JRE, and JDK are the three main components of Java architecture. To know more about Java architecture, visit https://www.javatpoint.com/java-architecture of the Java tutorial. With the advancement in technology, the version of JDK also enhances, and the current JDK version being used is Java SE Development Kit 15.0.2. In the Java architecture, it can be seen that JDK and JRE are the essential part of the Java code, which provides the environment for the Java code to get executed. Thus, a Java Runtime Environment JRE or JDK is mandated for executing Java code. Next TopicJava Does Not Open ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
