https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/root/
root Archives - GeeksforGeeks
root Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Tag Archives: root Quadratic equation whose roots are reciprocal to the roots of given equation Given three integers A, B, and C representing the coefficients of a quadratic equation Ax2 + Bx + C = 0, the task is to… Read More root Mathematical Pattern Searching Check if a given integer is the product of K consecutive integers Given two positive integers N and K, the task is to check if the given integer N can be expressed as the product of K… Read More Numbers root Mathematical Pattern Searching Least root of given quadratic equation for value greater than equal to K Given the constants of quadratic equation F(x) = Ax2 + Bx + C as A, B, and C and an integer K, the task is… Read More Binary Search root Divide and Conquer Mathematical Searching Find the integral roots of a given Cubic equation Hard Given 5 integers say A, B, C, D, and E which represents the cubic equation , the task is to find the integral solution for… Read More Algebra Binary Search maths-cube root Articles Competitive Programming Mathematical Searching Check whether one root of the Quadratic Equation is twice of other or not Given three numbers A, B, C which represents the coefficients(constants) of a quadratic equation , the task is to check whether one root of the equation… Read More root Mathematical Check if roots of a Quadratic Equation are reciprocal of each other or not Given three numbers A, B, C which represents the coefficients(constants) of a quadratic equation , the task is to check whether the roots of the equation… Read More root Mathematical Check if product of Array elements in given range are M-th root or not Content has been removed on Author’s request. Want to learn from the best curated videos and practice problems, check out the C++ Foundation Course for… Read More array-range-queries root Advanced Data Structure C++ Programs Competitive Programming Mathematical Tree Check if roots of a Quadratic Equation are numerically equal but opposite in sign or not Given the coefficients (constants) of a quadratic equation , i.e. a, b, and c; the task is to check whether roots of the equation represented by… Read More root Mathematical C program to find square root of a given number Medium Given a number N, the task is to write a C program to find the square root of the given number N. Examples: Input: N… Read More root square-root-decomposition C Language C Programs Mathematical School Programming Find Cube root of a number using Log function Given number N, the task is to find the cube root using log function.Examples: Input: N = 8 Output: 2.000000Input: N = 27 Output: 3.000000 Recommended:… Read More maths-cube root Mathematical School Programming Nth root of a number using log Given two integers N and K, the task is to find the Nth root of the K. Examples: Input: N = 3, K = 8… Read More root Mathematical Form the Cubic equation from the given roots Given the roots of a cubic equation A, B and C, the task is to form the Cubic equation from the given roots.Note: The given… Read More Algebra root Mathematical Digital Root of a given large integer using Recursion The digital root of a positive integer is found by summing the digits of the integer. If the resulting value is a single digit then… Read More ACM-ICPC large-numbers number-digits root Mathematical Recursion Strings Print a pair of numbers with the given Sum and Product Given a sum S and product P, the task is to print any pair of integers which has the sum S and the product P.… Read More Numbers root Mathematical School Programming Floor square root without using sqrt() function : Recursive Easy Given a number N, the task is to find the floor square root of the number N without using the built-in square root function. Floor… Read More Binary Search maths-perfect-square root Algorithms Mathematical Page 1 of 212» What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in root C program to find square root of a given number Find root of a number using Newton's method Digital Root of a given large integer using Recursion Floor square root without using sqrt() function : Recursive Form the Cubic equation from the given roots Most visited in root Quadratic equation whose roots are reciprocal to the roots of given equation Find the integral roots of a given Cubic equation Find Cube root of a number using Log function Nth root of a number using log Print a pair of numbers with the given Sum and Product 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
