https://www.javatpoint.com/excel-tutorial
Learn MS Excel Tutorial - javatpoint
Learn MS Excel Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? MS Excel Tutorial MS Excel tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of Excel. Our Excel tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. Microsoft Excel is a computer application program written by Microsoft. It mainly comprises tabs, groups of commands and worksheet. It is mainly used to store tabular data. Our MS Excel tutorial includes all topics of MS Excel such as ribbon and tabs, quick access toolbar, mini toolbar, buttons, worksheet, data manipulation, formatting, function, formula, vlookup, isna and more. What is Microsoft Excel? Microsoft Excel is one of the most suitable spreadsheet functions that help us manage data, create optically logical charts, and thought-provoking graphs. Microsoft Excel is supported by both Mac and PC platforms. Microsoft Excel can also be used to balance a checkbook, create an expense document, build formulas, and edit them. It mainly comprises tabs, groups of commands, and worksheets. The worksheet is made of rows and columns that intersect each other to form cells where data is entered. It is capable of performing multiple tasks like calculations, data analysis, and integrating data. Microsoft Office button, ribbon, and quick access toolbar are the three main features of excel that you need to focus on while learning excel. Microsoft Excel Features There are several features that are available in Excel to make our task more manageable. Some of the main features are: AutoFormat - lets us choose many preset table formatting options. AutoSum: It helps us to add the contents of a cluster of adjacent cells. List AutoFill: It automatically develops cell formatting when a new component is added to the end of a list. AutoFill: It feature allows us to quickly fill cells with a repetitive or sequential record such as chronological dates or numbers, and repeated document. AutoFill can also be used to copy function. We can also alter text and numbers with this feature. AutoShapes: Autoshapes toolbar will allow us to draw some geometrical shapes, arrows, flowchart items, stars, and more. With these shapes, we can draw our graphs. Wizard: It guides us to work effectively while we work by displaying several helpful tips and techniques based on what we are doing. Drag and Drop feature will help us to reposition the record and text by simply dragging the data with the help of the mouse. Charts: These features will help us in presenting a graphical representation of our data in the form of Pie, Bar, Line charts, and more. PivotTable: It flips and sums data in seconds and allows us to execute data analysis and generating documents like periodic financial statements, statistical documents, etc. We can also analyze complex data relationships graphically. Shortcut Menus: These commands that are appropriate to the function that we are doing occur by clicking the right mouse button. How to Open Microsoft Excel? When you open Excel 2016 for the first time, the Excel Start Screen will occur. From here, we'll be able to create a new workbook, choose a template, and access our recently edited workbooks. From the Excel Start Screen, locate and select the Blank workbook to create the Excel interface. To click Open Other Workbooks to work on an existing workbook. To set up Excel, so it automatically accessible a new workbook Click File then Options. On the General tab, under the Startup option, uncheck the display the Start screen when this program starts box. The next time we start Excel, it opens a blank workbook automatically same to older versions of Excel. Excel Interface After starting Excel, we will see two windows - one within the other. The outer window is the Application Window, and the inner window is a Workbook Window. When maximized, the Excel Workbook Window composite in with the Application Window. After completing this module, we should be able to: Identify the components of the Application Window. Identify the components of the Workbook Window. Application Window The Application Window provides the space for our worksheets and workbook items, such as charts. The components of the Application Window are defined below. Quick Access Toolbar The Quick Access Toolbar lets us access common commands no matter which tab is selected. By default, it involves the Save, Undo, and Repeat commands. We can add other commands depending on our preference. To add the command to the Quick Access toolbar To click the drop-down arrow to the right of the Quick Access toolbar. Select the command we wish to add from the drop-down menu. To choose from more commands, select More Commands. The command will be joined to the Quick Access toolbar. The Ribbon Excel 2016 utilizes a tabbed Ribbon system instead of traditional menus. The Ribbon includes multiple tabs, each with several groups of commands. We will use these tabs to perform the most common function in Excel. To minimize and maximize the Ribbon The Ribbon is designed to respond to our current function, but we can choose to minimize it if we find that it takes up too much screen space. To click the Ribbon Display Options arrow in the upper-right corner of the Ribbon. Select the desired minimizing options from the drop-down menu: Auto-hide Ribbon: Auto-hide shows our workbook in full-screen mode and completely hides the Ribbon. To show the Ribbon, click Expand Ribbon command at the top of the screen. Show Tabs: This option hide all command groups when not in use, but tabs will remain clear. To show the Ribbon, simply click the tab. Show Tabs and Commands: This option maximize the Ribbon. All of the tabs and command will be clear. This option is selected by default when we open Excel for the first time. To Customize the Ribbon in Excel 2016 We can customize the Ribbon by creating your tabs with whichever commands we want. Commands are always housed within a group, and we can create as many groups as we want to keep our tab organized. If we want, we can even add commands to any of the default tabs, as long as we create a custom group in the tab. Right-click the Ribbon and then choose Customize the Ribbon from the drop-down menu. The Excel Options dialog box will occur. Locate and select New Tab. To make sure the New Group is selected, select a command, and then click Add. We can also drag commands directly into a group. When we are done adding commands, click OK. The commands will be added to the Ribbon. The Formula Bar In the formula bar, we can enter or edit data, a formula, or a function that will occur in a specific cell. In the image below, cell C1 is selected, and 2000 is entered into the formula bar. Note how the data contains in both the formula bar and in cell C1. The Name Box The Name box present the location or "name" of a selected cell. In the image below, cell B4 is selected. Noted that cell B4 is where column B and row 4 intersect. The Backstage View (The File Menu) Click the File tab on the Ribbon. The Backstage view will emerge. The Worksheet Views Excel 2016 has a variety of displaying options that change how our workbook is showed. We can choose to view any workbook in the Normal view, Page Layout view, or Page Break view. These views can be useful for several tasks, especially if we're planning to print the spreadsheet. To change the worksheet views, locate and choose the desired worksheet view command in the bottom-right corner of the Excel window. Zoom Control To use a Zoom control, click and drag the slider. The number to the right of the slider reverse the zoom percentage. Prerequisite Before learning MS Excel, you must have the basic knowledge of Computer Fundamental. Audience Our MS Excel tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problem We assure that you will not find any problem in this MS Excel tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. Next TopicWhat is Workbook Window next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
