https://www.javatpoint.com/engineering-mechanics-mcq
Engineering Mechanics MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Engineering Mechanics MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Engineering Mechanics MCQs Our top 50 Engineering Mechanics questions and answers focus on all the areas of this subject. It covers over more than 50 topics in Engineering Mechanics. Anyone who wishes to sharpen their knowledge, preparing for the interviews, or preparing for the entrance exam can practice these Engineering Mechanics Questions. 1) For two vectors defined by an arrow with a head and a tail. The length of each vector and the angle between them represents: Their magnitude and direction of the line of action, respectively Their magnitude's square and direction of the line of action, respectively Magnitude's square and the ratio of their lengths, respectively Magnitude's square root and direction of the line of action, respectively Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Their magnitude and direction of the line of action, respectively ] Description: The length of each vector and the angle between them represent their magnitude and direction of the action line, respectively. The head/tip of the arrow indicates the sense of direction of the vector. 2) A force vector with magnitude R and making an angle ? with the x-axis is having its component along the x-axis and y-axis as: Rcosine (180-?) and Rsine(?) Rcosine (?) and Rsine(?) Rcosine (?) and Rsine(180+?) Rcosine (180-?) and Rsine(180+?) Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Rcosine (?) and Rsine(?) ] Description: The component along the x-axis is the cosine component of the vector. And the y-axis component of the vector is the sine component if the angle is being made with the x-axis. And 180- ? for some of the trigonometric functions may change their sign. 3) Shown as in the figure below, A=60 degree and B=30 degree. Calculate the total length obtained by adding the x-axis component of both vectors. 4.35m 3.23m 1.5m 2.50m Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 3.23m ] Description: After getting the cosine components of the given vectors, we obtain the total length of the x-axis components to be 3cos60 + 2cos30 = 3.23. 4) If two equal vector forces are mutually perpendicular, then the resultant force is acting at which angle as compared to one of the vector? 0 degree 45 degree 90 degree 180 degree Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 45 degrees] Description: The vectors are mutually perpendicular. It means that the angle between the forces is 90 degree. Thus the results will form at 45 degrees to any of the vector. 5) If A is any vector with Ai + Bj + Ck, then what is the y-axis component of the vector? A units B units C units The square root of a sum of squares of the three, i.e., A, B, and C Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ B units ] Description: As the given vector is shown in the Cartesian system, the number with "j" is the given vector's Y-axis component. The numbers with "i" represent components of the x-axis and "k" representing the z-axis, respectively. 6) Which statement is right for force vector F = Ai + Bj + Ck? In rectangular components representation of any vector, we have vector F = Ax + By + Cz In rectangular components representation of any vector we have vector F = Ai + Bj + Ck In rectangular components representation of any vector we have vector F = Fi + Fj + Fk In rectangular components representation of any vector we have vector F = Fx + Fy + Fz Show Answer Workspace Answer: In rectangular components representation of any vector we have vector F = Fx + Fy + Fz Description: As given the vector is F = Ai + Bj + Ck, this implies that the x,y, and z-axis components of this vector are A, B, and C, respectively. But, in the rectangular component's representation of any vector, the vector is written as F = Fx + Fy + Fz. 7) For a vector F, Fcos? is equal to zero. What does this refer to? Y-axis component is zero X-axis component is zero ? = 180° Z-axis component is zero Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Y-axis component is zero ] Description: As we know, the ?, ?, and ? are the angles made by the x, y, and z-axis, respectively. Thus y-axis component is zero, or ? = 90°. Thus, if the angle gives a component to zero, the vector in that particular axis is perpendicular to that axis. 8) Find the angle ?, for the vector making an angle by y and z-axis as 60° and 45°, respectively. It makes an angle of ? with the x-axis. The magnitude of the force is 200N. 120° 60° 90° 45° Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 60° ] Description: When you will resolve the vector in its x, y, and z-axis components, you will get an equation containing cos?. After getting the ? correctly, you need to put that value in the previous equation of components directly. ? = 60°. As 120° will give a negative component. Just try to resolve the vector in its components. 9) Express the vector in the Cartesian Form if the angle made by it with y and z-axis is 60° and 45° respectively. Also, it makes an angle of ? with the x-axis. The magnitude of the force is 200N. 100i - 100j + 141.4k N 100i + 100j + 141.4k N 100i - 100j - 141.4k N 100i + 100j - 141.4k N Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 100i + 100j + 141.4k N ] Description: When you will resolve the vector in its x, y, and z-axis components, you will get an equation containing cos?. After getting the correct, you need to put that value in the previous equation of components directly. 10) What if we multiply a scalar to the unit vector? The magnitude will change accordingly The direction will change accordingly The direction will change by a factor of the square root of the scalar The magnitude will not change accordingly Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ The magnitude will change accordingly ] Description: The magnitude of the unit vector will change by the amount of the scalar multiplied. Not the direction. Because the direction is being fixed after applying the unit vector's calculation, the vector is divided by its magnitude. 11) Which statement is right? Multiplicative law: a(A.B) = Ax(aB) Communitive law: A.B =B.A Communitive law: a(A.B) = A.(aB) Multiplicative law: A.(B+D) = (A.B) + (A.D) Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Communitive law: A.B =B.A ] Description: For three vectors A, B and D the various laws are. Communitive law: A.B =B.A. While distributive law is A.(B+D) = (A.B) + (A.D). And multiplication law is a(A.B) = A.(aB). 12) What is (AxB).(BxA); or A = A1i + A2j + A3k and B = B1i + B2j + B3k? A1B1A2B2i + A2B2A3B3j + A3B3A1B1k A1B1A1B2i + A2B2A3B2j + A3B3A1B3k A1B1A2B1i + A2B2A2B3j + A3B3A2B1k 0 Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ 0 ] Description: Here, we are trying to do the two vectors' cross product in the same plane, which will give us zero. Simultaneously, the dot product of the same plane vector will give a scalar quantity, not zero. 13) What is the dot product of two vectors which are having a magnitude equal to unity and are making an angle of 45°? -0.707 0.707 -1.414 1.414 Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 0.707 ] Description: The dot product of two vectors having the angle between them equal to 45° will have the product of the vector's magnitude. As the vectors are of unit magnitude, their product will be unity. Thus the magnitude factor would be cosine function at 45 °. 14) What is the magnitude of the resultant vector's unit vector? (Resultant vector of the two vectors shown in the figure below) 225N 1N 55N 110N Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 1N ] Description: The question asked is asking for the magnitude of the unit vector of the resultant vector. Thus the answer is 1. Whether the vector's magnitude is any quantity, the unit vector will have a magnitude equal to unity. And the direction given by the unit vector will be in the same direction as that of the vector. 15) Determine the value of the q, parallel to the z-axis. That is the point of intersection of the projections of the points A, B, and C parallel to the xy plane. The distance between the tri-section point and the points A, B, and C be equal to 0.6m. 51.9mm 51.9cm 51.19mm 51.9m Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 51.9cm ] Description: The application of the equilibrium equation will yield the result. The resultant along the z-axis will remain zero, which gives the value of ? as 50°. And therefore q=51.9cm. 16) If anybody is tied to three or more ropes and is allowed to achieve its equilibrium. Then the equilibrium achieved is achieved w.r.t what? The ground The 3-axis of the body The weight direction The ropes direction tton class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(16)">Workspace Answer: A [ The ground ] Description: Yes, the equilibrium is being achieved w.r.t the ground. Like the motion, w.r.t ground need be zero. The relative velocity of the object or the body must be zero w.r.t the ground. This means motion is in equilibrium. 17) The tendency of rotation of the body along any axis is also called ______ Moment of couple Moment of inertia Force Torque Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Torque ] Description: The tendency of rotation of the body along any axis, also called the torque. It is the moment of the force acting perpendicular to the direction of the axis of rotation. If the axis and the force are meeting, then there is no moment applied by force. 18) The moment is the cross product of which two vectors? Radius and Force vectors Force and Radius vectors Radius and Force scalars Force and Radius scalars Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Radius and Force vectors ] Description: The cross product needs to take in the proper sequence. If not taken, then the answer is just the opposite of the true answer. That's why the answer is not the Force and Radius vectors but the Radius and Force vectors. Because the moment has its direction, as many of the cross products have, precaution needs to be taken. 19) Which of the following is correct w.r.t the moment (M) of the force (F) acting on the body at a distance L from the axis of the rotation? M=FLcos? M=FLsin? M=FxLsin? M=F.Lsin? Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ M=FLsin? ] Description: The moment of the force about the axis of rotation by the application of the force on the body is given by the cross product of both. If the force was not perpendicular to the axis and angle ?, the form of angle is used. As usually used in the cross product. 20) If a force is applied at any point in its line of action and is still creating the same moment about any fixed point, say P, then the force is said to be a sliding vector. What is the name of this property? Distributive property Associative property Principle transmissibility of the force Negative associative property Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Principle transmissibility of the force ] Description: If a force is applied at any point in its line of action and is still creating the same moment about any fixed point, say P, then the force is said to be a sliding vector. This is because the moment of the force which is acting on its line of the axis at point P is the same throughout. It is known as the principle transmissibility of the force. 21) Which of the following is correct? (For A representing the vector representation of the axis of rotation, r the radius vector and F the force vector) Ax(rxF) A.(rxF) Fx(r.F) A.(r.F) Show Answer Workspace Answer: A.(rxF) Description: The correct form of the equation is given by A.(rxF). A represents the vector of the rotation's axis, r the radius vector, and F the force vector. Usually, it can be done to determine the moment of the force about the axis. That is if the force is rotating the body about an axis. 22) Which of the following forces do not cause the rotation. Suppose the rotation is considered inside the body's axis or the centroid axis of the body. Concurrent Non-concurrent Non-Parallel Parallel Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Concurrent ] Description: The concurrent forces are the axis of rotation. If any of the force touches that axis, that force is not considered insufficient to cause a rotation. If a force is concurrent, then the force's perpendicular distance from the axis line is zero, thus no rotation. As we know, rotation is caused by a moment. 23) Which of the following is correct for the moment of couple M caused by two forces of the same magnitude F and are separated by a distance of r? M = r.F M = rxF M = -(r.F) M = -(rxF) Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ M = rxF ] Description: The answer is M = rxF. The moment is the cross product of the distance and the forces. It is the direction as directed by the curling of the hand. The thumb is representing the direction of the moment. The finger's motion is the rotation that gives the direction of the rotation caused by the forces. 24) Determine the couple moment acting on the triangular plane shown. 100Nm 1600Nm 600Nm 2600Nm Show Answer Workspace Answer: 2600Nm 25) The principle of transmissibility is It states that the force acting on the body is a rolling vector It states that the force acting on the body is a sliding vector It states that the force acting on the body is a unit vector It states that the force acting on the body is a unit vector Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ It states that the force acting on the body is a sliding vector ] Description: The principle of transmissibility states that the force acting on the body is a sliding vector. That is, it can be applied at any point of the body. It will give the same effect as if applied at any point other than the specific point. Thus the answer. 26) What is the main motto of simplification? To add the forces with the couples and take out the total To reduce the calculation To multiply the forces with the couples and take out the total To subtract the forces with the couples and take out the total Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ To reduce the calculation ] Description: The main moto of simplification is to reduce the calculation. The forces are simplified, and the couples to are simplified. This gives us the total force and the total moment acting on the body. This gives us a single value of the respective thing and hence reduces the work. 27) Just like the collinear forces, there is a collinear couple, and the net moment is taken out from it. The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is false too The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is true The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is false Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is false ] Description: Both of them are vector quantities. And both of them can be easily simplified. If taken in the vector form, then the task is even easier. Thus it is not necessary for the force or the couple to be vector only. Even if the magnitude is taken, the simplification is done in the 2D. 28) There are two types of loading. The uniformly distributed and the non-uniformly distributed, that is the one having two different values at corners. The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is false too The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is true The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is false Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too ] Description: The two loading forms are uniformly distributed and non-uniformly distributed with two different values at corners. The uniform distributed load is not having two different values of the load per unit meter on the corner. 29) In the simplification of the loading system, the net force acts at the ___________ of the loading body. The center axis Centroid The base The corner Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Centroid ] Description: In simplifying the loading system, the net force acts at the loading body's centroid. If the loading system is in the form of the triangle, then at a distance two by 3 of the base, the loading's net force will act. And the load will be half the area of the loading. 30) In triangle distributed loading, the loading at any distance can be easily found by using which of the following trigonometry function? Sine Tangent Sine inverse Cosine Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Tangent ] Description: In triangle distributed loading, the loading at any distance can be easily found by using the Tangent trigonometry function. That is because the linear distance only determines the vertical loading. That is, the loading is uniform along with the linear distance. If the linear distance is more, the loading is more. 31) The resultant force acting of the uniformly distributed loading is dependent on: Vertical distance Area The distance of the supports between them Length of the supports Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Area ] Description: The resultant force acting of the uniformly distributed loading is dependent on the area that the distribution is covering. The more the area, the more is the force. That is more the tension created over the structure on which loading is kept. Hence the answer. 32) Determine the vertical components of the reaction on the beam caused by the pin at Q. The force 60N is multiplied by ten and then is applied. 445N 319N 40N 45N Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 319N ] Description: The summation of the forces needs to be zero. So does the summation of the moments need to zero? But talking about the angles, they not needed to zero. But the forces acting at particular angles must be equal to zero?the basic need of the forces to put the body in equilibrium. 33) Which of the following statement for the three force system is true? The forces are not always in the equilibrium The moment need not be seen for the equilibrium. It is always in equilibrium The moments are always in equilibrium The forces are always in equilibrium Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ The forces are always in equilibrium ] Description: The forces in the three-force system are not always in equilibrium. The equilibrium is established when the forces cancel out each other. Also, when the net moment is zero. Then only the equilibrium is established in the three force system. 34) A force is developed by the support that not allows the ________ of its attached member. Rotation Translation Subtraction Addition Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Translation ] Description: The force developed by support doesn't allow the translation of its attached member. This is the basic condition for the equilibrium of the forces in any dimension. This rule is applied when the support reactions are taken into account for the body's equilibrium. 35) The single pin, single bearing, and single hinge resist _____ Couple moments Force Inertia Both force and couple moments Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Both force and couple moments ] Description: The experiments have founded that the single pin, single bearing, and single hinge resist both force and couple moments. It helps in attaining the equilibrium of the body. Thus proper guidance must be taken while solving the question on the same. 36) If the supports are properly aligned, the reaction forces developed adequately support the body. The statement is true only in 3D The statement is true only in 2D The statement is true only in 1D The statement is true throughout Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Statement is true throughout ] Description: This is the basic nature observed during the experiments on the beams and all the support systems. The dimension doesn't affect the equilibrium conditions. The main motto is to achieve equilibrium. It is achieved by equating the net force equal to zero. 37) What is redundant support? The supports consisting of hinge only The supports consisting of a hinge and a roller The supports more than necessary to hold the structure The supports consisting of roller only Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ The supports more than necessary to hold the structure ] Description: The supports, if they are more than the supports required to hold the structure, are termed as the reductant supports. It becomes statically indeterminate. It creates a problem in achieving the equilibrium and affects the calculation of the equilibrium. 38) What is Statically indeterminacy? There will be more equations available for equilibrium than the unknown loadings There will be fewer equations available for equilibrium than the unknown loadings The support reactions are opposite to each other There will be equal equations available for equilibrium as the unknown loadings Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ There will be fewer equations available for equilibrium than the unknown loadings ] Description: Statically indeterminacy is the condition when fewer equations are available for equilibrium than the unknown loadings. It not only creates a problem in achieving the equilibrium but also affects the calculation of the equilibrium. Thus this is the stuff that one needs to prevent from happening. 39) In 3D, the body will be improperly constrained if the reaction forces intersect the axis. The statement is wrong The statement is right The statement is right if there is a 'support reaction.' The statement is right if there is '2D.' Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ The statement is right ] Description: In 3D, the body will be improperly constrained if the reaction forces intersect the axis. It is because there will be small moments that will occur in real situations. But they will not be matched in the calculations done for determining the equilibrium. Thus the statement is right. 40) The couple is a scalar quantity, and the force is a vector quantity; hence, only force can be simplified in free body diagrams. The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is false too The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is true The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is false Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is true ] Description: Both of them are vector quantities. And both of them can be easily simplified. If taken in the vector form, then the task is even easier. Thus it is not necessary for the force or the couple to be vector only. Even if the magnitude is taken, the simplification is done in the 2D. 41) The couple and the other two force systems in free body diagrams can be easily simplified. Statement is right Statement is wrong The statement is right if we remove the 'force' part The statement is right if we remove the 'couple' part Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Statement is right ] Description: Both of them are vector quantities. And both of them can be easily simplified. If taken in the vector form, then the task is even easier. Thus it is not necessary for the force or the couple to be vector only. Even if the magnitude is taken, the simplification is done in the 2D. 42) What is a collinear system of forces for free body diagrams? The force system having all the forces perpendicular to each other The force system having all the forces parallel to each other Forces cannot form a collinear system of forces. It is not possible The force system having all the forces emerging from a single point Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ The force system having all the forces emerging from a single point ] Description: The force system having all the forces emerging from a point is called the force's collinear system. It is a type of system of force, which is easy the simplification. As the forces are the vector quantity, the vector math is applied, and the simplification is done. 43) To design the trusses, which of the following rules is followed? The loads are applied at the joints The use of cables applies all the loads The loads are not applied at all to the joints All the loads are not applied at the joints Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ The loads are applied at the joints ] Description: The set of rules which are used to design the trusses have various rules. To them, one is that the loads are applied at the joints. It is done with the neglecting of the weight of the trusses section. 44) What does Newton's third law state? For every reaction, there is an equal and opposite reaction The rate of change of momentum is equal to the force applied The body is rest until a force is applied The body tends to be rotated if the force is applied tangentially Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ For every reaction, there is an equal and opposite reaction ] Description: The requirement of the third law is important in the equilibrium of the body. Especially the rigid bodies. The rigid body particles are in equilibrium. Due to which they are facing the forces. They also react and apply the opposite force, and thus Newton's third law to be in equilibrium. 45) If the body is in equilibrium, but it is having a rotational curled ray shown in the free body diagram, then: Such rotations can't be shown in the fbds(free-body diagrams) The diagram is wrong The body is said to be in equilibrium only, as the other forces will cancel out that rotation The ray shown may be correct, but the body is not said to be in equilibrium Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ The body is said to be in equilibrium only, as the other forces will cancel out that rotation ] Description: The body having equilibrium will not rotate at any cost. Yes, the diagram may contain the rotational array showing the couple being acted over the structure. But the thing is that the forces, i.e., the other forces outside the dependency of this rotation, will cancel out this rotation, and thus the body is in equilibrium. 46) If five forces are acting on the single-particle and having an angle of 72° between each and are collinear, then: The net force acting on the body is horizontal The net force acting on the body is zero The net force acting on the body is at an angle of 45 The net force acting on the body is vertical Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ The net force acting on the body is zero ] Description: The net force acting on the body is zero. It means that the forces cancel out. This means that the body is in equilibrium and doesn't need any external force to make itself in equilibrium. 47) The difference between the two and the three force members is: The former is parallel, and the latter is perpendicular The former are collinear, and the latter is parallel The former is acting on two points in the body while the latter is on three points The former is perpendicular, and the latter is collinear Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ The former is acting on two points in the body while the latter is on three points ] Description: The two force member's definition only defines that the forces are acting on the two points on the body. So does is the definition of the three forces members. The points of action of the three forces are three. 48) Which of the following statement for the three force system is true? The forces are not always in the equilibrium The moment need not be seen for the equilibrium. It always in equilibrium The moments are always in equilibrium The forces are always in equilibrium Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ The forces are not always in the equilibrium ] Description: The forces in the three-force system are not always in equilibrium. The equilibrium is established when the forces cancel out each other. Also, when the net moment is zero. Then only the equilibrium is established in the three force system. 49) All the forces need to be collinear in the three-force system. Then only will they for the equilibrium state. The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is false too The first part of the statement is false, and the other part is true The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is false Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ The first part of the statement is true, and the other part is true too ] Description: The forces need to be collinear. If they are not so, then the equilibrium is not possible. If they are parallel, too, then it is assumed that they are meeting in infinity. And hence the equilibrium is established between the forces. Thus the forces must be collinear. 50) A couple of moment is developed when _______ of the attached member is prevented. Rotation Translation Subtraction Addition Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Rotation ] Description: The development of the couple moment is when there is a prevention of the attached member's rotation. This is the basic condition for the equilibrium of the couple moments in any dimension. This rule is applied when the couple moments are taken into account for the equilibrium of the body. Next TopicMechanical Engineering MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
