https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-format-factory
What is Format Factory - Javatpoint
What is Format Factory - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev What is Format Factory? Format Factory is an ad-supported freeware comprehensive multimedia file converter that can convert video, audio, and picture files for personal or commercial use. It allows users to change the format or file extension of a video, audio, image, or text file to run on a different application or operating system. It is also capable of ripping DVDs and CDs to other file formats and creating .iso images. It can also join multiple video files together into one. Format Factory is an easy-to-use application that allows you to convert the format of a group of files at once. No matter if they are videos, sounds, or images, Format Factory can deal with all of them. Format Factory is a Graphic User Interface for three of the most powerful conversion tools, such as FFmpeg for video, Mencoder for audio, and CxImage for images. The conversion range between formats includes the most used designs nowadays and suggestions for iPod, iPhone, or PSP. It converts any video to MP4, 3GP, MPG, AVI, WMV, FLV, SWF, etc. It converts any audio file to MP3, WMA, MMF, AMR, OGG, M4A, WAV, etc. It converts any picture to JPG, BMP, PNG, TIF, ICO, etc. Finally, we have to say that Format Factory offers more than conversion tools. You can rip Audio CDs and Video DVDs, repair video and audio files, as well as create disc images. Features of Format Factory Here are some features of format factory that make it more useful for users, such as: 1. Convert multimedia formats Some files run well on their original apps or in a Windows Operating System but get stuck with other applications or in a Mac OS. Not all apps or operating systems support or recognize all file extensions. So it can help you to convert file formats. The Format Factory can also reduce the size of heavy files. Certain formats shrink files without sacrificing the quality of the content. This is convenient for making backups of your digital information so that more files can fit in a USB key, CD-ROM, DVD, or Blu-Ray. 2. Video file formats for PC, web, and smartphones The MP4 file type is perfect for downloading Internet videos or copying DVDs to your computer. For uploading your aficionado videos for web distribution, you need to change MP4s files into MPG files with the Format Factory free app. Convert your old phone's 3GP videos into MP4 so you can play them on a newer phone. To make sure your PC videos can play on your tablet, you can use the format converter application to turn Flash FLV files, Windows WMV files, and Shockwave SWF files into one-size-fits-all AVI files or MP4s. 3. Audio formats for different purposes You'll have no trouble playing your audio files on new windows PC if you use Format Factory for Mac to change your WAV audio files to the universal MP3 format, which plays on any device. Suppose you need high-quality audio of a phone conversation to present as evidence. In that case, you may want to convert the AMR codec into an AAC Advanced Audio Coding file that will run in a sound editor and can break audio into the front and background tracks. 4. Image files for every project You can turn a JPG image into part of a TGA Truecolor animation video, cut that image, and paste it into the video file, but it should be in the same format for the video editor to paste it. You can create a small-size best-quality image. And if you want to lower the bit-size of a big BMP bitmap on your PC to a much smaller JPG, then you can use it on your website. You can also use two-frame GIF animation as an icon instead of a button. It doesn't have the right ICO format for that. You'll need to use your format converter. You can also create a Watermark file. Turn that ICO image into a WordArt watermark. 5. Easy PDF conversion for editing If you want to extract an image from a PDF file you've downloaded or edit the text in Word, the Format Factory app has a tool for that. The Portable Data Format secures the page content's presentation exactly as you see it on the computer screen. It will not let you edit. PDFs are great for printing or posting online, preventing anyone from making changes. If you want to edit or copy an element of the page onto a different file, convert it to a Microsoft Word DOC or DOCX file, or TXT text file, or save an extracted image as a JPG. 6. Combining different files into one Besides supporting all the file formats for video, audio, image, and text mentioned above, Format Factory is AVI-Mux enabled. This means the application can combine two or more videos into one long movie, several soundtracks into continuous audio, and different scenes of subtitles into a text file. It's a lifesaver for backups. The software allows you to store all your files on a DVD, CD, or USB key for you to take your multimedia wherever you go. If you want to save hard drive space, Format Factory Portable lets you download the application straight into a removable device without having to install it on your computer. How to Use Format Factory? Format Factory is a freeware multimedia converter that supports any audio or video format. Below is a step-by-step guide that will show you how to use the Format Factory converter to convert videos to other formats, such as: Step 1: Download Format Factory Open your web browser and go to the official site of Format Factory or click on the following link to download Format Factory. http://public.pcfreetime.com/FFSetup5.6.5.0.exe Double click the set-up file icon and follow the follow-up wizard to install the program. Step 2: Select Output Format Now open Format Factory, you will see the interface as below. You will see many formats under Video from the left panel, select one, and your video files will be converted to this specific format. Suppose we convert AMR audio file into MP3 format, so we have to select "Audio" from the menu, which can be found at the left side of Format Factory, then select "All to MP3". Step 3: Add Video Files On the next screen, you will need to import your audio files to Format Factory. Click on the Add File button to navigate to the folder where your source files are saved. And add them to the program. Step 4: Output Setting (Optional) There are a few things you can customize. You can select audio quality and size. You can also set Audio Stream, Additional Subtitle, Watermark, Bitrate, and more. The default setting should work fine. Step 5: Start Converting Videos After customizing or selecting all settings, click on the ok button. From the top toolbar, click on the Start button and wait for the finish conversion. NOTE: As the file is being converted, you will see its progress as it is converted. The time required will vary based on your original file's size and the speed of your computer. Step 6: Find Files If you didn't customize the output folder, you might go to My Documents on your computer. There will be a folder in My Documents named as FFOutput. Your converted files will be in that folder. Alternatively, you can select Output Folder to locate the finished videos. Following this Format Factory process, you may find it's easy to convert videos using Format Factory. If you are looking for an alternative, Video Converter is one of the best and most reliable programs which let you convert any videos, HD videos, and audios. Next TopicWhat is HandBrake ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
