https://www.tutorialspoint.com/about/return_refund_policy.htm
Return, Refund, & Cancellation Policy - Tutorialspoint
Return, Refund, & Cancellation Policy - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks About Tutorialspoint Company Team Careers Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Terms of Use Refund Policy More Links Write for us FAQ Helping Contact Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Return, Refund, & Cancellation Policy Video Courses Refund and Cancellation If a video course you purchased is not what you were expecting, you can place a credit/refund request, within 30 days of your purchase of the course. You can use the credits towards your next course purchase on our website. No credit or refund will be issued if you request it after the 30-day guarantee time limit has passed. Tutorials Point believes in complete transparency and maintaining a thoroughly accountable system. You are entitled to a 100% refund upon order cancellation for a video course purchased as long as it satisfies the following - The cancellation is requested within 30 days of purchase of the online course. Not more than 4 videos sessions have been watched. No provided material along with the video course has been downloaded. No course certificates have been issued. You can cancel and request for a refund from the provided option along with the subscribed course. All the approved refunds will be paid within 15-20 business days from the date of the approval being granted by the Company. A payment gateway fees may be applicable in case a payment gateway charges it to Tutorials Point. At our discretion, if we believe you are abusing our cancellation/refund policy, we reserve the right to ban your account and restrict all future use of our Services. eBooks Refund and Cancellation Before you go ahead and purchase any eBook from tutorialspoint.com, we encourage you to go through the sample chapters provided and make sure the material of the eBook is as per your expectation. Tutorials Point will not be able to Cancel, Refund or Replace the downloaded eBooks due to the electronic nature of the content, though we can re-issue the same eBook in case you receive it in damaged condition. Website Subscription Refund and Cancellation Once you subscribe to our Website Subscription to enjoy the website without any advertisement then there will not be any cancellation or refund of the amount. Last udpated on 28th Oct 2020, 4:15pm IST Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
