https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/school-learning/?ref=shm
School Learning - GeeksforGeeks
School Learning - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles School Learning 5 Simple Steps to Create Wireframe in Software Design 8 Most Important Steps To Follow in System Design Round of Interviews Automating File Movement on your system Junk File Organizer in Python Desktop Notifier in Python Python Desktop News Notifier in 20 lines Morse Code Translator In Python Simple Chat Room using Python Socket Programming in Python Socket Programming with Multi-threading in Python Multithreading in Python | Set 1 Multithreading in Python | Set 2 (Synchronization) Synchronization and Pooling of processes in Python Multiprocessing in Python | Set 1 (Introduction) Multiprocessing in Python | Set 2 (Communication between processes) Difference Between Multithreading vs Multiprocessing in Python Difference between Multiprocessing and Multithreading Difference between Multiprogramming, multitasking, multithreading and multiprocessing Random Access Memory (RAM) and Read Only Memory (ROM) Difference between 32-bit and 64-bit operating systems What happens when we turn on computer? Boot Block in Operating System Microkernel in Operating Systems Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths School Learning Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 19 Feb, 2021 The core vision behind the School Learning initiative of GeeksforGeeks is to provide the school students with quality learning resources and to make the learning process better than ever for them. Here, we will introduce various technological advancements such as animated videos, live-streaming, etc. for a more engaging and worthwhile learning experience for students. You will get the video lectures, articles, practice tracks on various subjects without any cost! We have divide the School Learning in two major parts: GeeksforGeeks School – Youtube Videos Class 8 to 12 Concepts, Excercise & Solutions HTML Workshop Live: Learning HTML is very much necessary to become a web developer. Here, we’re providing you with a 5-week workshop for HTML. There will be a total of 10 sessions over a period of 5 weeks where you’ll get to learn HTML from scratch. Machine Learning: Machine Learning (ML) is a part of Artificial Intelligence and is concerned with the ability of machines to learn for themselves without being explicitly programmed. Computational Thinking with Scratch: Scratch is an open-source block-based programming language that allows students to build games or solve puzzles for the sake of developing computational thinking skills. Here, you’ll get to learn various key computational thinking concepts and practices with the help of an interesting Duck Jump Game. Live Python Class: Learning a new programming language has always been a daunting task. But to simplify things – we’re providing you with a 5-week workshop that will surely help you to get started with the renowned programming language. Puzzles: Solving puzzles is undoubtedly the best exercise for your brain that too along with having fun simultaneously. Here, we’re providing you with several most exciting puzzles that you need to solve – so let’s check these out, and yes, do not try to cheat by skipping the video to see the answer. HTML Tutorial for Beginners: HTML, HyperText Markup Language is a markup language that is used to create web pages. It helps to structure the web page the same as a skeleton gives a structure to the human body. It is actually the combination of Hypertext and Markup language where Hypertext defines the link between the web pages and Markup Language is used to describe the text document within the tag that defines the structure of web pages. Python Programming: Python is one of the most popular and widely used programming languages across the world. This high-level general-purpose programming language is being used in Web Development, Data Science, Machine Learning, and various other cutting-edge technologies. We’re providing you with quality content on various subjects for Classes 8 to 12. It will be a one-stop destination for all your learning concerns, for instance – if you want to learn any specific subject of a particular class, you will get it here or if you want to practice the exercises questions, it will also be provided here. Moreover, the entire content for all the subjects is prepared by the respective subject experts and in an optimized & creative manner. You can access the content for particular classes from below: Class 8 – Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 9 – Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 10 – Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 11 – Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions Class 12 – Mathematics Concepts NCERT Solutions RD Sharma Solutions My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like Next last_page 5 Simple Steps to Create Wireframe in Software Design Recommended Articles Page : Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library 17, Feb 17 Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning 23, Jan 19 How to Start Learning Machine Learning? 11, Sep 19 Difference Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning 26, May 20 Need of Data Structures and Algorithms for Deep Learning and Machine Learning 14, Oct 20 Machine Learning - Applications 11, Jan 16 Demystifying Machine Learning 02, May 16 Getting started with Machine Learning 17, Feb 17 Introduction To Machine Learning using Python 04, May 17 An introduction to Machine Learning 24, Aug 17 Underfitting and Overfitting in Machine Learning 23, Nov 17 Regression and Classification | Supervised Machine Learning 01, Dec 17 Difference between Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence 19, Feb 18 Top 10 Apps Using Machine Learning in 2020 10, Apr 20 Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence 23, Apr 18 Why learning C Programming is a must? 08, Feb 19 Beginner Tips for Learning Python 04, Apr 19 How Machine Learning Will Change the World? 12, Feb 20 Top 10 Algorithms every Machine Learning Engineer should know 22, May 19 Targeted Advertising using Machine Learning 05, Sep 19 Benefits of Using Modern Learning Apps 12, May 19 Combining IoT and Machine Learning makes our future smarter 23, May 19 Top Career Paths in Machine Learning 13, Jun 19 Relationship between Data Mining and Machine Learning 17, Jul 19 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Class 10 Class 11 Class 12 Class 8 Class 9 GBlog NCERT RD Sharma Solutions School Learning Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Class 10 Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Roots of Quadratic Equations Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Most visited in Class 11 Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples Focus and Directrix of a Parabola Principle of Mathematical Induction General and Middle Terms - Binomial Theorem - Class 11 Maths Measures of Central Tendency Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
