https://www.javatpoint.com/sublimation
Sublimation | What is Sublimation - javatpoint
Sublimation | What is Sublimation - javatpoint ? Home Definitions Reasoning Aptitude Verbal Ability GK Programs Projects Interview Q Java JSP Android C# HTML CSS jQuery Training Definitions Antibiotics Definition Conjunction Definition Corrosion Definition Deforestation Definition Pressure Definition Viscosity Definition Water Pollution Definition Even Numbers Definition Kinetic Energy Definition Anemia Definition Blood Pressure Definition Stress Definition Asynchronous Definition Entropy Definition Real Numbers Definition Frame Definition Sonar Definition Asthma Definition Cancer Definition Epidemic Definition Analog Definition Humidity Definition Parasite Definition Reproduction Definition Advertising Definition Disaster Definition Interjection Definition Precipitation Definition Sublimation Definition Surface Tension Definition Enzyme Definition next ? ? prev Sublimation (Phase Transition) What is Sublimation? Sublimation is the method by which the material changes from the frozen solid to the gas without going through the intermediate liquid state. It is an endothermic process at pressure and temperature. It is lower than the triple point of substance with its transition phase that refers to the lower pressure at which the substance would remain the same as a liquid form. We may transform the sublimation as transforming material from the solid phase to the gaseous phase without changing into the liquid phase. This approach is an endothermic phase transition at a temperature and pressure below the substance's triple point. The opposite of this phase in which a gas is directly converted to solid-state is de-sublimation or deposition. The transition from a solid to a gaseous state involves the transition from a solid to a liquid state and from a liquid to a gaseous state. If solids have adequate vapor pressure at a given temperature, they can sublimate directly into the air. Sublimation is also shown in solids that have high pressure at their triple level. The triple point occurs when the pressure and temperature of a substance are that can exist in all three states of matter at the same time. Elements and compounds usually exist in three states at various temperatures. Examples of Sublimation Various examples of sublimation are as follows: Carbon Dioxide Dry ice is the essential example of sublimation, a frozen form of carbon dioxide. If dry ice is exposed to air, dry ice changes its phase immediately from a solid-state to a gaseous state that is recognizable as fog. In its gaseous state, frozen carbon dioxide is more stable than its solid-state. Water Water, ice, and snow are examples of sublime, but these move slowly at temperatures below the freezing and melting point line at 0 C and partial pressure less than the triple point pressure of 612 Pa. During freeze-drying, the substance to be dehydrated is frozen, and the water is enabled to sublimate in lower pressure or vacuum. Sunshine acting directly upon on top layers of the snow causes the loss of snow from a snowfield during a cold period. Sublimation and erosive wear of glacier ice is also part of the process. Naphthalene Naphthalene is an organic compound, which is another well-known example of sublimation. Naphthalene is commonly present in mothball-like pesticides. The mothballs and naphthalene balls may easily sublime because of the presence of the non-polar molecules held together by the Van Der Waals intermolecular forces. Naphthalene sublimates to form vapors at a temperature of 176F. It de-sublimates to form needle-like crystals on cool surfaces. Other Substances Iodine produces soft-heating fumes, but it is above the triple stage. At atmospheric pressure, liquid iodine can be obtained by keeping the temperature above iodine's melting point. Iodine vapor can expose latent fingerprints on paper in forensic science. At high temperatures, Arsenic can also sublimate. In forensic sciences, sublimation finds practical use. Dye-sublimation printers help create digital images in a detailed and practical way that helps analyze substances. Chemists typically prefer sublimation as a purification process for the purification of volatile compounds. Next TopicSurface Tension Defintion ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
