https://www.javatpoint.com/cmos
CMOS - Javatpoint
CMOS - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev CMOS CMOS or Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor is a combination of NMOS and PMOS transistors that operates under the applied electrical field. The structure of CMOS was initially developed for high density and low power logic gates. The NMOS and PMOS are the types of Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MOSFET). The CMOS transistors are used in various applications, such as amplifiers, switching circuits, logic circuits, Integrated circuit chips, microprocessors, etc. The importance of CMOS in semiconductor technology is its low power dissipation and low operating currents. Its manufacturing requires fewer steps as compared to the Bipolar Junction transistors. As discussed, CMOS is a combination of NMOS and PMOS transistors. Let's discuss a short description of the NMOS and PMOS transistor before beginning with CMOS. NMOS The symbol of the NMOS transistor is shown below: The n-channel MOSFET is called NMOS. It has a substrate of p-type, which consists of majority carriers holes. The n-channel consists of majority carriers electrons. The flow of electrons is fast as compared to holes. Hence, NMOS transistors are more rapid than PMOS transistors. PMOS The symbol of the PMOS transistor is shown below: The p-channel MOSFET is called PMOS. It has a substrate of n-type, which consists of majority carriers electrons. When a negative voltage is applied to the gate end of the PMOS, it repels the electrons. The attraction of holes results in the formation of the channel called the p-channel. The channel is formed between the source and drain. The slow flow of holes makes the current controlled process of PMOS easy as compared to NMOS transistors. Connection setup of CMOS The practical construction of the CMOS transistor is shown in the below image: It comprises the NMOS transistor that has N++ regions at the source and drain terminal and p-type substrate. Similarly, the PMOS transistor has two P++ regions and an n-type substrate. Working of CMOS The structure as shown consists of the NMOS transistor inverted on the top of the PMOS transistor. The substrate is of the P-type, and three N++ regions. The two N++ regions are small and the third N++ region is large. The two smaller regions are a part of the NMOS transistor, while the third N++ region is a part of the PMOS transistor. The two P++ regions are diffused into the larger N++ region to form the PMOS transistor. The top surface is protected and covered using the Silicon dioxide layer (SiO2) with aluminum's metallization. CMOS has the least amount of power dissipation in the switching applications. It is because when one transistor is OFF, the other becomes ON. For example, if PMOS is ON, the NMOS transistor will be OFF. The value of VDD voltage is generally selected between 5V and 15V. The symbol of CMOS is shown below: Here, G, S, and D specifies the Gate, Source, and Drain terminal of the NMOS and PMOS. The practical construction of CMOS is shown below: Let's consider the two states of the CMOS, when the input voltage (A) is 0 and 1. a) A in the above diagram is the input voltage that is fed to the NMOS and PMOS transistors. When the input voltage (A) = 0V, the PMOS conducts, and NMOS will remain in the OFF A' will become 1 when A is 0. Let's represent such condition in the form of NO and NC switches, as shown below: It means that the output voltage is considered as logic 1 because the PMOS switch is closed and the NMOS switch at the bottom is open. b) Similarly, when the input voltage A = 1, A' will be 0. In such a state, the PMOS will be OFF, and NMOS will conduct. Such state is represented below: It means that the output is 0 when the input is 1. The output voltage is considered as logic 0 because the PMOS switch at the top is open and the NMOS switch is closed. CMOS Logic Gates CMOS logic gates are manufactured using the combination of NMOS and PMOS field-effect transistors. In the case of NMOS logic gates, we generally use NMOS depletion type transistors as the load resistance. In CMOS logic gates, we use a complementary structure in which one transistor acts as a load to the other transistor. The NMOS transistors are designed to work as positive logic elements, while PMOS works as negative logic elements. It means that both the transistors in a CMOS perform complementary logic functions. Features of CMOS Logic Gates The features of CMOS Logic Gates are listed below: Reduced cost as it requires only a single power supply. Large logic swing. Large fan-out capability. Very high noise margin. Lower propagation delay High speed as compared to NMOS transistors. Lower power dissipation. Excellent temperature stability. Less packaging density. Types of CMOS logic gates The Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductors are categorized as: CMOS Inverter CMOS NAND CMOS NOR CMOS Operational Amplifiers CMOS Inverter The CMOS inverter is formed by connecting the PMOS and NMOS transistors in cascade, as shown below: The top of the CMOS inverter is the PMOS transistor, while the bottom transistor is NMOS. The positive voltage of +VDD at the gate input of the NMOS transistors will turn it ON, while the same positive voltage at the gate input of the PMOS transistor will keep it OFF. Similarly, the voltage of 0 volts at the gate input of the NMOS transistors will keep it OFF, while the same 0 at the gate input of the PMOS transistor will turn it ON. It means that NMOS transmits logic 1 or VDD, and PMOS transmits logic 0. CMOS NAND CMOS NAND is a combination of NMOS NAND and PMOS NOR. It consists of an NMOS NAND gate with the PMOS NOR as its load. CMOS NAND gate can also include a PMOS NOR with the NMOS NAND as its load. It means that NMOS and PMOS transistors' combination in the desired manner forms a CMOS logic gate. The circuit diagram of CMOS NAND is shown below: The input terminal of the transistors is A and B, as shown above. If A = 0 and B = 0, the NMOS transistors will remain off, and the two PMOS transistors will conduct. Consider the NOR table shown below: A B A NOR B 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 It clearly shows that the output is 1 when the two inputs are 0. Hence, PMOS NOR will conduct. The output Y will be: Y = logic 1 = VDD Similarly, when both the input is 1, the NMOS NAND will conduct, and PMOS NOR will remain OFF. But, the output will be 0 because the power will pass to the ground. Consider the CMOS NAND table shown below: A B CMOS NAND 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 CMOS NOR CMOS NOR logic gate is a combination of NMOS NOR and PMOS NAND. The circuit diagram is shown below: When both the input A and B are 0, NMOS NOR will remain OFF, and PMOS NAND will conduct. It means that transistors T1 and T2 will be OFF, while T3 and T4 will conduct. Thus, the output will be logic 1 when the voltage VDD reaches through the conduction of transistors T3 and T4. CMOS NOR will conduct only when both the inputs are 0 as discussed above. At all the other input conditions, the output will be 0, as listed below: A B CMOS NOR 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1d 1 0 CMOS Operational Amplifiers The CMOS structures can also be used as an amplifier when the operating point is fixed in the active region. Let's consider an example of a CMOS differential amplifier using constant current sources. Advantages of CMOS Let's discuss the advantages of the Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor, which are listed below: Very low power dissipation There is no continuous current path from the positive terminal of the transistor to its negative terminal throughout the circuit except the switching instants. Hence, it has the least amount of power dissipation. Reduced circuit complexity CMOS requires fewer components, due to which the circuit complexity reduces. Produces very less heat CMOS produces significantly less heat as compared to other transistors, such as NMOS and TTL (Transistor-Transistor Logic). Other transistors have some standing current even in the unchanged state, while CMOS does not have. Low static power Consumption In an ideal state, CMOS dissipates almost zero or no power as compared to other circuits. It means that it only dissipates power while switching. The lesser dissipation results in lower power consumption. Hence, CMOS has very low static power consumption. Temperature stability CMOS family is stable in a wider temperature range compared to other logic circuits, such as TTL. The operating range of CMOS is around -55 degrees Celsius to 125 degrees, while TTL is 25 to 70 degrees Celsius. Improved Noise immunity Noise immunity refers to the ability of a system to function in the presence of noise interference. CMOS has the highest noise immunity as compared to the circuit of logic families. Hence, it is highly preferred in high noise automotive applications. High fan-out Fan out specifies the input gates driven by the output of the other gate. It means the highest number of input gates of a particular type to which the output can be connected. The fan-out feature measures the load driving ability of a logic gate. Thus, CMOS has a high fan out. Applications of CMOS The applications of CMOS are listed below: Integrated Circuits CMOS consumes less current than other logic devices, such as TTL. Hence, the use of CMOS in the Integrated Circuit applications forms the production of ICs that has lower consumption and low dissipation. Chip designing The use of CMOS in chip designing allows the high-density logic functions to be integrated on a chip. Microprocessor designing CMOS requires current only during the switching state. It means that CMOS uses the power efficiently. Hence, CMOS is used in most modern processors, such as microprocessors. ASIC designing It stands for Application Specific Integrated Circuits. CMOS is considered the standard transistor for the fabrication of chips. Hence, it is used in ASIC designing. CPU Memories The two major advantages of CMOS are high noise immunity and low static power consumption. Due to this, it is used in the CPU (Central Processing Units) Memories. CMOS vs. NMOS Let's discuss some differences between CMOS and NMOS for a better understanding. It will help us to analyze the applications of both these transistors in electronics. Category CMOS NMOS Full Form Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor. N-type Metal Oxide Semiconductor. Formation It is a combination of NMOS and PMOS. It only consists of NMOS. Logic transmission CMOS transmits both logic 1 and logic 0. NMOS transmits only logic 1. Advantages High fan-out, lower power dissipation, etc. Lowest required diffusion steps, etc. Applications Batteries, sensors, cameras, etc. Logic gates and digital circuits. Next TopicHall Effect ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
