https://www.w3schools.com/about/about_privacy.asp
About Privacy
About Privacy w3schools.com LOG IN THE WORLD'S LARGEST WEB DEVELOPER SITE HTML CSS JAVASCRIPT SQL PYTHON PHP BOOTSTRAP HOW TO W3.CSS JQUERY JAVA MORE ? ? ? SHOP COURSES REFERENCES EXERCISES × HTML and CSS Learn HTML Learn CSS Learn Bootstrap Learn W3.CSS Learn Colors Learn Icons Learn Graphics Learn SVG Learn Canvas Learn How To Learn Sass Artificial Intelligence Learn AI Learn Machine Learning Learn Data Science Learn Pandas Learn NumPy XML Learn XML Learn XML AJAX Learn XML DOM Learn XML DTD Learn XML Schema Learn XSLT Learn XPath Learn XQuery JavaScript Learn JavaScript Learn jQuery Learn React Learn AngularJS Learn JSON Learn AJAX Learn AppML Learn W3.JS Programming Learn Python Learn Java Learn C++ Learn C# Learn R Server Side Learn SQL Learn PHP Learn ASP Learn Node.js Learn Raspberry Pi Web Building Web Templates Web Statistics Web Certificates Web Editor Web Development Test Your Typing Speed Play a Code Game Artificial Intelligence Learn AI Learn Machine Learning Learn Data Science Learn Pandas Learn NumPy XML Learn XML Learn XML AJAX Learn XML DOM Learn XML DTD Learn XML Schema Learn XSLT Learn XPath Learn XQuery × HTML HTML Tag Reference HTML Browser Support HTML Event Reference HTML Color Reference HTML Attribute Reference HTML Canvas Reference HTML SVG Reference HTML Character Sets Google Maps Reference CSS CSS Reference CSS Browser Support CSS Selector Reference Bootstrap 3 Reference Bootstrap 4 Reference W3.CSS Reference Icon Reference Sass Reference JavaScript JavaScript Reference HTML DOM Reference jQuery Reference AngularJS Reference AppML Reference W3.JS Reference Programming Python Reference Java Reference Server Side SQL Reference PHP Reference ASP Reference XML XML Reference XML Http Reference XSLT Reference XML Schema Reference Character Sets HTML Character Sets HTML ASCII HTML ANSI HTML Windows-1252 HTML ISO-8859-1 HTML Symbols HTML UTF-8 × Exercises HTML Exercises CSS Exercises JavaScript Exercises SQL Exercises PHP Exercises Python Exercises jQuery Exercises Bootstrap Exercises Bootstrap 4 Exercises Java Exercises C++ Exercises C# Exercises R Exercises Quizzes HTML Quiz CSS Quiz JavaScript Quiz SQL Quiz PHP Quiz Python Quiz jQuery Quiz Bootstrap Quiz Bootstrap 4 Quiz Java Quiz C++ Quiz C# Quiz XML Quiz Certificates HTML Certificate CSS Certificate JavaScript Certificate Front End Certificate SQL Certificate PHP Certificate Python Certificate Java Certificate jQuery Certificate Bootstrap Certificate XML Certificate × LOG IN Why Log In? Username Password LOG IN New User? Sign Up For Free! Forgot password? About Us About W3Schools About Terms About Privacy About Privacy ? Previous Next ? Privacy Statement for W3Schools This Privacy Policy describes how your personal information is collected, used, and shared when you visit or make a purchase from w3schools.com (the "Site"). Personal information we collect When you visit the Site, we automatically collect certain information about your device, including information about your web browser, IP address, time zone, and some of the cookies that are installed on your device. Additionally, as you browse the Site, we collect information about the individual web pages or products that you view, what websites or search terms referred you to the Site, and information about how you interact with the Site. We refer to this automatically-collected information as "Device Information". We collect Device Information using the following technologies: "Cookies" are data files that are placed on your device or computer and often include an anonymous unique identifier. For more information about cookies, and how to disable cookies, visit http://www.allaboutcookies.org. "Log files", and User Accounts, track actions occurring on the Site, and collect data including your IP address, browser type, Internet service provider, referring/exit pages, and date/time stamps. "Web beacons", "tags", and "pixels" are electronic files used to record information about how you browse the Site. Additionally when you make a purchase or attempt to make a purchase through the Site, we collect certain information from you, including your name, billing address, shipping address, payment information (including credit card numbers, email address, and phone number. We refer to this information as "Order Information". Personal User Information When we talk about "Personal Information" in this Privacy Policy, we are talking both about Device Information and Order Information. How do we use your personal information? We use the Order Information that we collect generally to fulfill any orders placed through the Site (including processing your payment information, arranging for shipping, and providing you with invoices and/or order confirmations). Additionally, we use this Order Information to: Communicate with you; Screen our orders for potential risk or fraud; and When in line with the preferences you have shared with us, provide you with information or advertising relating to our products or services. We use the Device Information that we collect to help us screen for potential risk and fraud (in particular, your IP address), and more generally to improve and optimize our Site (for example, by generating analytics about how our customers browse and interact with the Site, and to assess the success of our marketing and advertising campaigns). We use your account information that we collect generally to generate statistics for you, and provide personalized roadmaps. Additionally, we use this information to: Communicate with you; When in line with the preferences you have shared with us, provide you with information or advertising relating to our products or services. Sharing you personal Information We share your Personal Information with third parties to help us use your Personal Information, as described above. For example, we use Google Analytics to help us understand how our customers use the Site -- you can read more about how Google uses your Personal Information here: https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/. You can also opt-out of Google Analytics here: https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. We also use Shopify to power our online store--you can read more about how Shopify uses your Personal Information here: https://www.shopify.com/legal/privacy. We fund our site by showing adverts as you browse our site. These adverts are usually managed by a partner specializing in providing adverts for multiple sites. Invariably these partners collect anonymous data about the websites you visits so they can personalize the adverts to you, ensure that you don't see the same adverts too frequently and ultimately report to advertisers on which adverts are working. We use a third-party to provide monetization technologies for our site. You can review their privacy and cookie policy here. Finally, we may also share your Personal Information to comply with applicable laws and regulations, to respond to a subpoena, search warrant or other lawful request for information we receive, or to otherwise protect our rights. Behavioural advertising As described above, we use your Personal Information to provide you with targeted advertisements or marketing communications we believe may be of interest to you. For more information about how targeted advertising works, you can visit the Network Advertising Initiative's ("NAI") educational page at http://www.networkadvertising.org/understanding-online-advertising/how-does-it-work. You can opt out of targeted advertising by using the links below: - Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/settings/?tab=ads - Google: https://www.google.com/settings/ads/anonymous - Bing: https://advertise.bingads.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/policies/personalized-ads You can get a full list of the partners we use by accessing our ads.txt file. Additionally, you can opt out of some of these services by visiting the Digital Advertising Alliance's opt-out portal at: http://optout.aboutads.info/. You can learn more about online advertising, or opt-out of almost all advertising cookies at https://www.youronlinechoices.com. Note: Opting out will not disable ads, they will just no longer be tailored to you. Manage Consent If you want to change your choices regarding your personal information, you can use the button below: Manage Consent Do not track Please note that we do not alter our Site's data collection and use practices when we see a Do Not Track signal from your browser. Your rights If you are a European resident, you have the right to access personal information we hold about you and to ask that your personal information be corrected, updated, or deleted. If you would like to exercise this right, please contact us through the contact information below. Additionally, if you are a European resident we note that we are processing your information in order to fulfill contracts we might have with you (for example if you make an order through the Site), or otherwise to pursue our legitimate business interests listed above. Additionally, please note that your information will be transferred outside of Europe, including to Canada and the United States. Data retention When you place an order through the Site, we will maintain your Order Information for our records unless and until you ask us to delete this information. Changes We may update this privacy policy from time to time in order to reflect, for example, changes to our practices or for other operational, legal or regulatory reasons. Using Google Drive in our Tryit Editor Our Tryit Editor allows users to store code to, or import code from, Google Drive. This allows users to: Store examples/code to their Google Drive Share examples/code through Google Drive W3Schools does not keep for ourselves, or share this information with third parties. Links W3Schools contains links to other sites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites. This privacy document applies only to W3Schools. Contact us For more information about our privacy practices, if you have questions, or if you would like to make a complaint, please contact us by e?mail at help@w3schools.com or by mail using the details provided below: w3schools [Re: Privacy Compliance Officer] Larsamyraa 18, 4313 SANDNES, Norway ? Previous Next ? COLOR PICKER LIKE US Get certified by completing a course today! w3schools CERTIFIED . 2021 Get started CODE GAME Play Game Certificates HTML CSS JavaScript Front End Python SQL And more REPORT ERROR FORUM ABOUT SHOP × Report Error If you want to report an error, or if you want to make a suggestion, do not hesitate to send us an e-mail: help@w3schools.com × Thank You For Helping Us! Your message has been sent to W3Schools. Top Tutorials HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial How To Tutorial SQL Tutorial Python Tutorial W3.CSS Tutorial Bootstrap Tutorial PHP Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial jQuery Tutorial Top References HTML Reference CSS Reference JavaScript Reference SQL Reference Python Reference W3.CSS Reference Bootstrap Reference PHP Reference HTML Colors Java Reference Angular Reference jQuery Reference Top Examples HTML Examples CSS Examples JavaScript Examples How To Examples SQL Examples Python Examples W3.CSS Examples Bootstrap Examples PHP Examples Java Examples XML Examples jQuery Examples Web Courses HTML Course CSS Course JavaScript Course Front End Course SQL Course Python Course PHP Course jQuery Course Java Course C++ Course C# Course XML Course Get Certified » W3Schools is optimized for learning and training. Examples might be simplified to improve reading and learning. Tutorials, references, and examples are constantly reviewed to avoid errors, but we cannot warrant full correctness of all content. While using W3Schools, you agree to have read and accepted our terms of use, cookie and privacy policy. Copyright 1999-2021 by Refsnes Data. All Rights Reserved. W3Schools is Powered by W3.CSS.
