https://www.javatpoint.com/class-10th-science-mcq
Class 10th Science MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Class 10th Science MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Class 10th Science MCQ 1) What is a balanced chemical equation? The equation in which the number of reactants is equal to the number of products. The equation in which the size of the reactant is equal to the size of the product. The equation in which the number of atoms of the reactant is equal to the number of atoms of the product. The equation in which the number of the molecule is equal to the number of the product. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) The equation in which the number of atoms of the reactant is equal to the number of atoms of the product. Explanation: An equation of mass value can neither be created nor destroyed, so the mass and atom value on both sides of the equation must be equal. 2) Sodium + Water ? Sodium Hydroxide + Hydrogen Sodium Hydrate + Hydrogen Sodium Hydroxide + Water Sodium Hydride + Water Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Sodium Hydroxide + Hydrogen. Explanation: Sodium + Water ? Sodium Hydroxide + Hydrogen. 3) What is the color of the silver chloride? Grey White Brown Greenish Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) White Explanation: The color of silver chloride is white, which turns gray from silver when sunlight. 4) Which thing changes after the rancidity of food? Smell and size Taste and size Smell and taste Taste and shape Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Smell and taste. Explanation: When fats and oils are oxidized it becomes rancid and their smell and taste change. 5) The bases change litmus paper from ___. Blue to red Red to blue Red to orange Orange to blue Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Red to blue Explanation: The bases change the litmus paper from red to blue, while acids change the litmus paper from blue to red. 6) Which of the following olfactory signals give the information about bases and acids? Color Odor Size Shape Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Odor Explanation: Olfactory indicators are substances that give information about acids and bases by changing their odor. 7) Metal oxide + Acid ? Salt + Hydrogen Metal Hydrate + hydrogen Salt + Water Metal hydrate + Water Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Salt + Water Explanation: Metal oxide + Acid ? Salt + Water 8) What is the name of CaSO4.1/2H2O? Baking powder Baking soda Plaster of Paris Gypsum Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Plaster of Paris Explanation: On heating the gypsum at 373K, it converts into Calcium Sulphate Hemihydrate (CaSO4.1/2H2O). It is also known as plaster of Paris, which is used in cement industries and sculpture making. 9) Which of the following metal is not lustrous? Gallium Cesium Mercury Diamond Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Diamond Explanation: Diamond is not a lustrous metal. It has no shining of its own. It only reflects the light falling on it. 10) Name the metal which is in liquid form at room temperature? Mercury Gallium Cesium Diamond Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Mercury Explanation: All metals, except mercury, are solid at room temperature. It occurs in liquid form at room temperature because its melting point is low. 11) Which of the following metal is the most reactive metal? Sodium Potassium Gold Aluminum Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Potassium Explanation: Potassium is the most reactive metal due to its position in the reactive series. 12) Which of the following metal is not reactive metal? Sodium Potassium Gold Aluminum Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Gold Explanation: Gold is the most non-reactive metal due to its position in the reactive series. 13) What is the name of C3H8? Butane Propene Ethane Propane Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Propane Explanation: Propane has three carbon atoms and eight hydrogen atoms, so its chemical formula is C3H8. 14) Which of the following prefixes is correct for the carboxylic acid? Oic acid Ene One Ol Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Oic acid Explanation: The chemical formula of a carboxylic acid is R-COOH. In which the carbon atom is a double bond with an oxygen atom and a single bond with a hydroxide molecule. Therefore, it takes the prefix oic acid. 15) What is the chemical formula of the ester compound? CH3COOCH2 CH3COOCH2CH3 CH3COOCH3CH CH3COOCH4 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) CH3COOCH2CH3 Explanation: The ester compound is a mixture of alcohol and carboxylic acids, and its chemical formula is CH3COOCH2CH3. 16) Soap creates a structure in the washing process. What is that structure called? Micelles Tail Head Hydrophilic Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Micelles Explanation: Soap is a long chain of hydrocarbon. One end is hydrophilic, which connects with a water molecule. One is hydrophobic, which connects with dirt and oil particle and forms a structure called micelles. 17) According to Mendeleev's periodic table, what is the basis of the elements' chemical property? Charge Valency Atomic number Mass Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Mass Explanation: According to Mendeleev's periodic table, elements' chemical properties are functions of their mass, so they have arranged the elements according to their mass. 18) According to Mendeleev's periodic table, which of the following elements belongs to the seventh or first group? Helium Hydrogen Sodium Argon Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Hydrogen Explanation: Hydrogen has one electron on its outer cell, so it belongs to the seventh and first group. Therefore, hydrogen could not find any place in the Mendeleev periodic table. 19) What is the number of groups in the modern periodic table? 18 17 10 12 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 18 Explanation: There are eighteen groups and seven periods in the modern periodic table. 20) Which group does chlorine belong to? Halogen group Alkaline metal group Alkaline earth metal group Noble gas group Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Halogen Explanation: Chlorine has seven outermost electrons and has a valency of one, so it belongs to the 17th group i.e., the halogen group. 21) Name the process by which plants take their nutrition? Zylum Phloem Photosynthesis Osmosis Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Photosynthesis. Explanation: Plants perform photosynthesis in which they get nutrition. In this process, plants are formed by synthesizing water and carbon dioxide in the presence of glucose and water made from sunlight, which gives them energy. 22) What is the name of the gland found in the human mouth? Thyroid Pitutory Gonads Salivary Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Salivary Explanation: The salivary gland is present in the human mouth, which is secretive saliva. It is slightly acidic in nature, which helps in killing the germs that come with food and makes the food fluffy so that it can be easily digested. 23) What is the name of the main structure in the human body through which gases are exchanged? Lungs Nose Oesophagous Alveoli Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Alveoli Explanation: Alveoli is present in the human's lungs, in which the exchange of gases takes place. In the human lungs, carbon-di-oxide is taken up by alveoli and releases oxygen into human blood. 24) What is the basic unit of the kidney? Neuron Nephron Cell Glomerulus Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Nephron Explanation: The basic unit of the kidney is the nephron. It consists of glomerulus, bowman's capsule, renal arteries. It helps in expelling water and minerals from the human body. 25) What is the basic unit of the nervous system? Neuron Nephron Cell Glomerulus Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Neuron Explanation: The nervous system's basic unit is the neuron by which instructions are transferred from the brain to other parts of the body. 26) What is the full form of CNS? Centripetal nervous system Central neuron system Central nervous system Central neuron style Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Central nervous system Explanation: The full form of CNS is the central nervous system. The central nervous system has two main parts: the brain and spinal cord. 27) How many parts of the human midbrain have? One Two Three Four Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Three Explanation: The three main parts of the human middle brain are the colliculi, tegmentum, and cerebral peduncles. This part is present at the top of the human brain, and it helps in balancing the body. 28) What is the name of the hormone secreted by gonads in the male reproductive system? Estrogen Testosterone Progesterone FSH Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Testosterone Explanation: Testosterone is secreted by the gonads in the male reproductive system, which helps in the creation of sperm. 29) What is the full form of FSH? Follicle Stimulating Hormone Follicle Stimuli Hormone File Stimulating Hormone Fuel Stimulating Hormone Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Follicle Stimulating Hormone Explanation: The full form of the FSH is Follicle Stimulating Hormone. It is secreted in females and helps in the menstrual cycle. It controls the growth of the egg. 30) What is the name of the process occurring in Hydra in reproduction? Fission Regeneration Budding Fragmentation Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Budding Explanation: Hydra is reproduced by budding. A small bud is produced in the body of hydra. When this bud matures, it separates from Hydra's body. 31) What is the name of the process occurring in the Bryophyllum plant in reproduction? Fission Regeneration Budding Vegetative propagation Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Vegetative propagation Explanation: The name of the process occurring in the Bryophyllum plant is vegetative propagation. In this process, notches are formed on the margins of its leaves. When they mature, they are separated from the leaves of the plant. 32) What is the name of the reproductive organ of the female plant that sticks to pollinators? Style Stigma Ovule Ovary Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Stigma Explanation: Stigma is the reproductive organ of a pollinating female plant. It stimulates the formation of the tube in style through which pollen particles flow and reach the ovary. 33) How many chromosomes are found in the human body? 22 pairs 23 pairs 24 pairs 23 chromosomes Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 23 pairs Explanation: A human has 23 pairs of chromosomes. One pair has the sex chromosome that determines the sex of the human body, and the other 22 pairs are autosomes. 34) How many numbers of characters are in the pea plant on which Mendel experiment? Five Three Seven Nine Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Seven Explanation: Mandel experiment on the pea plant in which he finds seven-character which are different in one sense. After crossing the plant of a different character, he gives the theory of heredity. 35) Who is the father of evolution? George Mendel Mendeleev Charles Darwin Madam Curie Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Charles Darwin Explanation: The father of evolution is Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin was a British naturalist who proposed the theory of biological evolution by natural selection. 36) Which of the following statements is correct about the analogous organ? The organs whose work are the same but structure is different. The organs of which both structure and work are the same. The organs of which both structure and work are different. None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) The organs whose work are the same but structure is different. Explanation: Analogous organs are those organs which work are the same, but their structure is different-for example, both the bat's hand and the bird's hand fly, but their internal structures are different. 37) What is another name of the convex mirror? Converging mirror Diverging mirror Curved mirror Concave mirror Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Diverging mirror Explanation: Convex mirror is also known as the diverging mirror because it diverges the ray of light falling on it. 38) What is the relationship between the radius of curvature and focal length of the mirror? R = 2F R = 3F 2R = F R = 1/2 (F) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) R = 2F Explanation: The radius of curvature is twice the focal length of the mirror. Therefore, option a is the correct answer. 39) What is the SI unit of power of a lens? Watt Joule Meter Diopter Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Diopter Explanation: The SI unit of the lens is diopter that is equal to the reciprocal of the focal length of the mirror (P = 1 / F) 40) What is the chemical formula of ozone? O3 O2 O4 O Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) O3 Explanation: Ozone is made by the addition of O2 with O. Therefore, the chemical formula of the ozone is O3. 41) The person suffering from myopia clearly unable to see Distant object Close object Both object Not any object Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Distant object Explanation: A person suffering from myopia is unable to see a distant object because his cornea is enlarged, due to which image is not formed at the retina. 42) How many colors are there in the rainbow? Five Six Seven Eight Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Seven Explanation: The rainbow has seven colors (Violet, Indigo, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange, Red) 43) What is the name of the part of the eye on which the image forms? Pupil Lens Cornea Retina Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Retina Explanation: Images are formed on the retina in the eye. Pictures are inverted on the retina. The retina sends images to the brain using optical nerves. 44) What is the formula of absolute refractive index (n) of any medium? c = v / n n = c / v n = c * v c = v + n Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) N = speed of light (in air)/speed of light (in medium) Explanation: Absolute refractive index is equal to the ratio of the speed of light in air (c) and speed of light in that medium for which we calculate the refractive index (v). The formula of absolute refractive index n = c/v. Where, n = Absolute refractive index c = Speed of light in air v = Speed of light in medium 45) What is the mathematical notation of ohm's law? V = IR V = RT I = RV R = VI Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) V = IR Explanation: According to ohm's law, electric current through a current-carrying conductor is directly proportional to the applied voltage to the conductor. 46) What is the SI unit of potential? Watt Joule Volt Tesla Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Volt Explanation: The SI unit of potential is volt. A volt is defined as the energy used in bringing a unit charge from infinity to that point in an electric field. 47) What is the name of the unit that remains constant when resistance is applied in series? Voltage Power Electric field Current Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Current Explanation: According to Kirchhoff's law, the current in a loop is the same throughout the loop. When we apply resistance in series, the current is constant across all resistors. 48) The electric generator works on whose basic principle? Electromagnetic field Fleming right-hand rule Electromagnetic induction Coulomb law Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Electromagnetic induction Explanation: Electric generator is work on the basic principle of electromagnetic induction. It says that "In a magnetic field when current across the wire is changed then a force is applied on that wire in the direction according to Fleming's right-hand rule". 49) Which is the correct sequence of airways during breathing? Nostrils ? larynx ? pharynx ? trachea ? lungs Nasal passage ? trachea ? pharynx ? larynx ? alveoli Larynx ? nostrils ? pharynx ? lungs Nostrils ? pharynx ? larynx ? trachea ? alveoli Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Nostrils ? pharynx ? larynx ? trachea ? alveoli Explanation: Nostrils ? pharynx ? larynx ? trachea ? alveoli. The alveoli provide a surface where gases can be exchanged. 50) What is the name of the gas produced in large quantities in a bio-gas plant? Methane Carbon-di-oxide Hydrogen sulphide Chlorofluorocarbon Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Methane Explanation: Biogas plants produce methane, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulphide, in which methane is produced in large quantities. It serves as a fuel and is used domestically for energy. In this way, it acts as a traditional source of energy. Next TopicWhat are Containers ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
