https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-cell
Types of Cell - Javatpoint
Types of Cell - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Cell Cells are known as the basic fundamental units of life on Earth. If any organism is broken apart as per the cellular structure, then the smallest independent components will be the cells. In short, cells are the smallest known particles responsible for performing all life's functions. Each living organism is either a single-cell organism or a multicellular organism consisting of various cells functioning simultaneously. Therefore, it is necessary to know what the different types of cells are. Here, we are discussing cell types and their characteristics. Before discussing the different cell types, let us first briefly explore the definition and main functions of cells. What is a Cell? By definition, "a cell refers to the smallest known basic unit of life primarily responsible for all of life's processes". In simple words, a cell is the biological, structural, and basic functional unit of life in all living beings or organisms. Moreover, cells tend to replicate themselves. That is the reason they are referred to as the building blocks of all living beings. The cells typically build up the structure to the body elements and convert the nutrients carried out by foods into energy. All organisms have cells, either single cell (unicellular) or multiple cells (multicellular). They are complex and are found in different sizes and shapes. The number of cells usually varies from one organism to another. Mycoplasmas are by far the smallest type of cells. Biologist Robert Hooke first discovered the cells. Functions of Cells Some of the major functions of cells are discussed below: Facilitate Growth Mitosis: The parent cells are sub-divided into the daughter cells in the mitosis process. By doing so, the cells multiply and facilitate further growth in organisms. Provide Support and Structure: The basic structure of all organisms is made up of cells. The cell membrane and cell wall are the primary components in organisms that work and include support and structure. For instance, our skin is composed of using a large number of cells. Allow Transport of Substances: Different nutrients are imported by the cells to perform chemical processes occurring within the cells. Additionally, the waste carried out by chemical processes is eliminated from the cells using the active and passive transport systems. Energy Production: Cells use energy to perform various chemical processes. The energy is typically produced by the cells using photosynthesis in plants and respiration in other organisms. Aids in Reproduction: Using the processes called mitosis and meiosis, the cells aid in reproduction. Mitosis is the asexual reproduction process primarily responsible for producing daughter cells from the parent cells. Besides, meiosis mainly plays a vital role in making daughter cells genetically different from the parent cells. Classification of Cell There are over trillions of cells, and each has a special structure and function. In particular, different cells produce different tissues in organisms. Every cell is equally important. We can generally classify cells under the following two broad categories: Prokaryotic Cells Eukaryotic Cells Prokaryotic Cells Prokaryotic cells are known as the smallest and earliest types of cells. They are single-celled microorganisms. Examples of prokaryotic include Bacteria and archaebacteria. Despite this, the photosynthetic prokaryotic includes cyanobacteria that help perform the photosynthesis process. Prokaryotic cells consist of a single membrane and one or more layers of protection from the outer forces and environments. They usually have a plasma membrane made up using phospholipids, surrounded by a cell wall made up primarily using rigid sugar. In some prokaryotic, the cell wall is further enclosed by the thick 'capsule' made up using sugars. Since they have a single membrane, all metabolic functions performed by prokaryotic occur in the plasma membrane or cytosol. Most of the prokaryotic cells also have cilia, tails, or other ways by which the cells control their movement. The prokaryotic cells can either be free-living or parasites. Some of the major characteristics of the prokaryotic cells are listed below: Prokaryotic don't contain a membrane-bound nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. They don't have chloroplast, Golgi bodies, mitochondria, and lysosomes. One of the essential constituents of eukaryotic chromosomes, the histone protein, is not found in prokaryotic. In prokaryotic, the genetic material exists on a single chromosome. The cell wall present in prokaryotic is composed of amino acids and carbohydrates. Prokaryotic have a plasma membrane, which mainly acts as a mitochondrial membrane and carries respiratory enzymes. Prokaryotic reproduce asexually due to binary fission. Besides, the sexual mode of reproduction consists of conjugation. The following image displays a structural view of the prokaryotic cells: It is generally a bacterial cell. This diagram displays that a true nucleus is absent, while flagellum is present. This eventually differentiates the prokaryotic cells from the eukaryotic cells. Components of Prokaryotic Cells The following are the components of the prokaryotic cells: Plasma Membrane: It is an outer covering layer of phospholipid molecules. This outer covering helps to separate the inner components of the cell from the outside environment. Cell Wall: It is defined as the outermost layer, helping cells to get certain shapes. Capsule: In addition to the cell wall, a capsule is another outer protective layer covering bacterial cells. This layer mainly keeps the cell protected when engulfed. Additionally, it also supports retaining moisture and in the attachment of cells to nutrients or surfaces. Mesosome: It is formed by an extension of the plasma membrane inside the cell wall. It is present in the form of tubules, vesicles, and lamellae. Ribosomes: They are responsible for protein synthesis. The synthesis process of proteins occurs here. Cytoplasm: It is a jelly-like material within the cell, which is composed of using cell organelles, salts, and enzymes. All the cell organelles are also suspended here. DNA (Nucleoid): A nucleoid is an area within the cytoplasm in which genetic material is found. Bacterial Flagellum: It is important to note that some prokaryotic cells may have components that other prokaryotic cells lack. Eukaryotic Cells Eukaryotic cells are referred to as the modern types of known cell types. These cells create complex and large organisms that are mostly based on multicellular cells. Organisms such as humans, animals, plants, fungi, and protozoa all have eukaryotic cells, and these organisms are called Eukaryota. These cells can maintain multiple environments in a single cell, allowing them to perform different metabolic reactions. This eventually helps eukaryotic cells to grow larger than prokaryotic cells. However, the eukaryotic cells are mainly characterized by the presence of a true nucleus. The nucleus refers to a membrane-enclosed organelle consisting of DNA organized in single or multiple linear molecules. These linear molecules are known as chromosomes. Since eukaryotic cells can contain more than one chromosome, they typically have large amounts of genetic information. Within a multicellular organism's body, various genes within these chromosomes can be "on" and "off". This ultimately allows cells to have different traits and function differently within the same organism. Some of the major characteristics of the eukaryotic cells are listed below: Eukaryotic cells consist of a nucleus which is enclosed by the nuclear membrane. Eukaryotic cells have a cell wall as the outermost layer. These cells reproduce by the process termed mitosis. Eukaryotic cells include mitochondria. Almost all eukaryotic cells are structured as cytoskeletal. Flagella and cilia act as locomotory organs in eukaryotic cells. The nucleus present in eukaryotic cells includes single, linear DNA carrying all the genetic information. The following image displays a structural view of the eukaryotic cells: This diagram displays that there is a presence of a nucleus, along with the membrane-bound organelles. Components of Eukaryotic Cells The following are the components of the eukaryotic cells: Nucleus: It involves a single linear DNA carrying related genetic information. The production of ribosomes also occurs here. Endoplasmic Reticulum: It acts as a network consisting of small, tabular-shaped structures that typically help divide the cell surfaces into luminal and extra-luminal. Cytoplasm: It contains a cytoskeleton. It also includes microtubules, microfilaments, and fiber to generate the cell's shape, stimulate cell-movements, and manage cell-organelles. Cell Membrane: It mainly helps in separating other cells from the outer environment. It also contains some specific embedded proteins that take part in the exchange of substances during the cell's in-and-out. DNA: DNA is organized into long structures, known as chromosomes. Lysosome: It mainly helps in processing hydrolytic enzymes to digest lipids, proteins, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in a body. Ribosome: It is the main region in which protein synthesis occurs. Ribosomes are usually made of proteins and ribonucleic acids. Mitochondria: It plays a vital role in the production of energy and further helps in cell-metabolism regulation. Golgi Apparatus: It is composed using a flat disc-shaped structure known as cisternae. It mainly plays a vital role in glycolipids and glycoproteins formation. It is important to note that some eukaryotic cells may have components that other eukaryotic cells lack. Types of Cells in the Human Body There are over 37 trillion cells in a human body. Additionally, many cells (over one million) die every second in the human body and are replaced by new cells. However, there is nothing to worry about it. It is the fundamental function of living organisms. Human is highly evolved multicellular organism and is created by the eukaryotic cells. Besides, plants, animals, and fungi are also created with eukaryotic cells. The following are the most common cells found in a human body: Stem Cells Before a cell is specialized, it originates unspecified and is known as a stem cell. Stem cells are pluripotent, meaning they can take the form of any cell in the human body. These cells are typically the ancestors of each specialized cell in the body, even a basic cell or the complex neurons. The process of conversion of stem cells into other cells is known as cell differentiation. The cell differentiation process is usually managed by inner genetics and several outer factors, including chemical and physical contact with other cells. Furthermore, stem cells can replicate on their own for long time-periods. Bone Cells Bone cells, also called bones, are the mineralized connective tissue that usually takes part in the skeletal system. Bones are typically the combination of collagen matrix and calcium phosphate minerals. There are three main types of these cells in the human body: osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. Osteoclasts: They are large and help regenerate and assimilate bones during healing. Osteoblasts: They help regulate bone mineralization and generate osteoid. Osteoid is an organic material of the bone matrix that usually mineralizes to produce bone. Furthermore, osteoblasts mature to produce osteocytes. Osteocytes: They incorporate in the process of bone formation and take part in maintaining calcium balance. Other typical bone cells are the lining cells that first originate as osteoblasts before becoming lining cells. The lining cells are of flat structure, lining the bone surface, and are responsible for the release of calcium. Blood Cells The blood cells are essential for the human body, either when transporting oxygen within the body or fighting against infections. The bone marrow typically generates these cells. There are mainly three blood cells, such as red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Red Blood Cells: They help in determining blood type and take part in oxygen transportation. White Blood Cells: They are usually termed immune system cells and are responsible for destroying pathogens and providing immunity. Platelets: They support clot blood to prevent excessive blood loss when blood vessels are damaged or broken. Muscle Cells Muscle cells, also called myocytes, produce muscle tissue that helps in various functions such as body movement, support, and various internal functions. These cells are long and tabular. There are mainly three types of muscle cells, such as skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Skeletal Muscle Cells: They help connect bones to perform voluntary movements. Connective tissues cover skeletal muscle cells to protect and support muscle fiber bundles. Cardiac Muscle Cells: They help produce involuntary muscle. Such types of muscle are found within the heart and do not usually need conscious efforts in operating. Smooth Muscle Cells: They help produce involuntary muscle, but they are neither striated like skeletal muscle nor heart muscle. Such involuntary muscles mainly help to inline the cavities of the human body. Furthermore, they also create walls of various organs, including the kidneys, blood vessels, intestines, and airways of the lungs. Fat Cells Fat cells are commonly known as adipocytes. They are one of the primary components of adipose tissue. These cells consist of droplets of triglycerides (stored fat) that can help fulfill energy needs. When there is fat within the cells, the cells seem round and swollen. After the fat is consumed, the cells shrink accordingly. Fat cells also take part in hormone generation, blood clotting, blood pressure regulation, cell signaling, insulin sensitivity control, etc. Nerve Cells Nerve cells, also called neurons, are the fundamental units of the nervous system. These cells act as the communication system and transmit signals between the brain, spinal cord, and many other organs using the nerve impulses. Typically, they conclude two parts, such as the cell body and nerve processes. Here, the cell body (central body) contains the nucleus and other organelles, while the nerve processes (such as axons or dendrites) work like long fingers and extend from the cell body to transmit signals. Apart from the cells mentioned above, there are many more types of cells in humans. However, it is not possible to cover all those cells. Next TopicTypes of Motion ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
