https://www.javatpoint.com/mongodb-tutorial
Learn MongoDB Tutorial - javatpoint
Learn MongoDB Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home C Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL MongoDB Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MongoDB Tutorial MongoDB Tutorial No SQL Databases Advantages over RDBMS MongoDB Data Types Install MongoDB MongoDB Data Modeling MongoDB Operators Query & Projection Operator MongoDB Update Operator Aggregation Pipeline Stages MongoDB limit() MongoDB sort() Query Modifiers Database Commands Aggregation Commands Geospatial Command Query & Write Operation Commands Query Plan Cache Commands Authentication Commands User Management Commands Role Management Commands Replication Commands Sharding Commands Session Commands Database Create Database Drop Database Collection Create Collection Drop Collection CRUD: Documents Insert Documents Update Documents Delete Documents Query Documents SQL to MongoDB Mapping MongoDB text search MongoDB Shell MongoDB Shell Shell Collection Methods Cursor Methods MongoDB Database Commands Query Plan Cache Methods User Management Methods Role Management Methods MongoDB Replication Methods Bulk Operation Methods Connection Methods Sharding Methods MongoDB Cloud MongoDB Stitch MongoDB Atlas MongoDB Cloud Manager MongoDB Ops Manager MongoDB Tools MongoDB Compass MongoDB BI connector Differences Cassandra vs MongoDB Couchdb vs MongoDB Redis vs MongoDB Connectivity Java MongoDB PHP MongoDB Python MongoDB Node.js MongoDB Interview Questions MongoDB Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? MongoDB Tutorial MongoDB tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of SQL. Our MongoDB tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. MongoDB is a No SQL database. It is an open-source, cross-platform, document-oriented database written in C++. Our MongoDB tutorial includes all topics of MongoDB database such as insert documents, update documents, delete documents, query documents, projection, sort() and limit() methods, create a collection, drop collection, etc. There are also given MongoDB interview questions to help you better understand the MongoDB database. What is MongoDB MongoDB is an open-source document database that provides high performance, high availability, and automatic scaling. In simple words, you can say that - Mongo DB is a document-oriented database. It is an open source product, developed and supported by a company named 10gen. MongoDB is available under General Public license for free, and it is also available under Commercial license from the manufacturer. The manufacturing company 10gen has defined MongoDB as: "MongoDB is a scalable, open source, high performance, document-oriented database." - 10gen MongoDB was designed to work with commodity servers. Now it is used by the company of all sizes, across all industry. History of MongoDB The initial development of MongoDB began in 2007 when the company was building a platform as a service similar to window azure. Window azure is a cloud computing platform and infrastructure, created by Microsoft, to build, deploy and manage applications and service through a global network. MongoDB was developed by a NewYork based organization named 10gen which is now known as MongoDB Inc. It was initially developed as a PAAS (Platform as a Service). Later in 2009, it is introduced in the market as an open source database server that was maintained and supported by MongoDB Inc. The first ready production of MongoDB has been considered from version 1.4 which was released in March 2010. MongoDB2.4.9 was the latest and stable version which was released on January 10, 2014. Purpose of building MongoDB It may be a very genuine question that - "what was the need of MongoDB although there were many databases in action?" There is a simple answer: All the modern applications require big data, fast features development, flexible deployment, and the older database systems not competent enough, so the MongoDB was needed. The primary purpose of building MongoDB is: Scalability Performance High Availability Scaling from single server deployments to large, complex multi-site architectures. Key points of MongoDB Develop Faster Deploy Easier Scale Bigger First of all, we should know what is document oriented database? Example of document oriented database MongoDB is a document oriented database. It is a key feature of MongoDB. It offers a document oriented storage. It is very simple you can program it easily. MongoDB stores data as documents, so it is known as document-oriented database. 
FirstName = "John",                                                                                                           
Address = "Detroit",                                                                                                   
Spouse = [{Name: "Angela"}].                                                                                           
FirstName ="John",  
Address = "Wick"
 There are two different documents (separated by "."). Storing data in this manner is called as document-oriented database. Mongo DB falls into a class of databases that calls Document Oriented Databases. There is also a broad category of database known as No SQL Databases. Features of MongoDB These are some important features of MongoDB: 1. Support ad hoc queries In MongoDB, you can search by field, range query and it also supports regular expression searches. 2. Indexing You can index any field in a document. 3. Replication MongoDB supports Master Slave replication. A master can perform Reads and Writes and a Slave copies data from the master and can only be used for reads or back up (not writes) 4. Duplication of data MongoDB can run over multiple servers. The data is duplicated to keep the system up and also keep its running condition in case of hardware failure. 5. Load balancing It has an automatic load balancing configuration because of data placed in shards. 6. Supports map reduce and aggregation tools. 7. Uses JavaScript instead of Procedures. 8. It is a schema-less database written in C++. 9. Provides high performance. 10. Stores files of any size easily without complicating your stack. 11. Easy to administer in the case of failures. 12. It also supports: JSON data model with dynamic schemas Auto-sharding for horizontal scalability Built in replication for high availability Now a day many companies using MongoDB to create new types of applications, improve performance and availability. Prerequisite Before learning MongoDB, you must have the basic knowledge of SQL and OOPs. Audience Our MongoDB tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problem We assure that you will not find any problem in this MongoDB tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. Next TopicNoSQL Databases next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
