https://www.javatpoint.com/surface-tension
Surface Tension | What is Surface Tension - javatpoint
Surface Tension | What is Surface Tension - javatpoint ? Home Definitions Reasoning Aptitude Verbal Ability GK Programs Projects Interview Q Java JSP Android C# HTML CSS jQuery Training Definitions Antibiotics Definition Conjunction Definition Corrosion Definition Deforestation Definition Pressure Definition Viscosity Definition Water Pollution Definition Even Numbers Definition Kinetic Energy Definition Anemia Definition Blood Pressure Definition Stress Definition Asynchronous Definition Entropy Definition Real Numbers Definition Frame Definition Sonar Definition Asthma Definition Cancer Definition Epidemic Definition Analog Definition Humidity Definition Parasite Definition Reproduction Definition Advertising Definition Disaster Definition Interjection Definition Precipitation Definition Sublimation Definition Surface Tension Definition Enzyme Definition next ? ? prev Surface Tension In this article, we are going to discuss surface tension and its formula, measurements, and examples. What is the surface tension? It is defined as the tendency of liquid surfaces to shrink into the smallest possible surface area. Surface tension is a process in which a liquid's surface, when in contact with a gas, behaves like a thin elastic layer. Liquids help to minimize the possible surface area. This term is usually applied when the liquid surface interacts with the gas. It is also referred to as "interface tension" when the surface is between two liquids particles (like water and oil). Surface tension is determined by the attraction forces between particles inside a liquid and the forces of attraction in contact with solids, liquids, and gases. The work or energy needed to remove the surface layer of molecules in a unit area is essentially equal to the energy responsible for surface tension. Therefore, surface tension can be expressed in energy units (joules) per unit of area (square meters). At 20 °C (68 °F), water has a surface tension of 0.07275 joules per square meter. In contrast, organic liquids have lower surface pressures, such as benzene and alcohols, whereas mercury has greater surface tension. The net force of attraction between molecules is decreased by increasing temperature and thus reducing surface tension. Usually, surface tension is calculated in dynes/cm, and the force in dynes is needed to break a 1 cm long film. The surface tension of different fluids is given below in a table: Liquid Surface Tension (N/m) Water 0.072 Sodium Chloride 114 Hydrogen 2.4 Helium 0.16 Ethanol 22.0 The formula of Surface Tension The liquid particles are drawn together by several intermolecular forces, like the Van der Waals forces. The particles are dragged along the surface towards the rest of the liquid, as seen in the image. It is defined as the ratio of surface force F to the length L along with force. The following formula can calculate surface tension: T = F/L Where T is the liquid's surface tension, F is the force, and L is the length over which the force works. SI unit of Surface Tension The SI unit of surface tension is N/m (Newton per meter), and the CGS (centimeter-gram-seconds) unit is Dyn/cm (dyne per centimeter). It is also helpful to think about it in terms of work per unit area to determine the situation's thermodynamics. In that case, the SI unit is J/m2 (joules per meter square). The unit of cgs is erg/cm2. The dimension of surface tension As we above mentioned, the formula of surface tension is: Surface tension (T) = F/L We know that F = ma, and after substituting the value of F = ma in the equation, we get: = ma/L After the fundamental quantities are added to the equation, we get, = MLT-2L-1 = MT-2 Examples of Surface tension Various examples of surface tension are available, some of them as follows: Floating a needle A carefully positioned small needle may be made to float on the water's surface even though it is many times as solid as the water. The needle may sink quickly if the surface is moved to break up the surface tension. Washing and cold water It is a more powerful wetting agent, and the main reason for washing with hot water is that its surface tension is lower. But if the detergent decreases the surface tension, there might be no need for heating. Surface tension and droplets The shape of liquid droplets is responsible for surface tension. Although easily deformed, water droplets appear to be pulled by the surface layer's cohesive forces into a spherical shape. Walking on water Tiny insects may walk on water as their weight is not enough to reach the surface, such as the water strider. Clinical test for jaundice The surface tension of normal urine is about 66 dynes per centimeter, but it drops to around 55 dynes per centimeter when bile is present. Powdered sulfur is sprayed on the urine surface during the Hay test. It will float in normal urine, but if the bile's surface tension is decreased, it will sink. Soap and detergents These help to clean the clothes by lowering the water's surface tension and allowing it to penetrate pores and soiled areas more easily. Measurements of Surface tension Various measurements of surface tension are as follows: Wilhelmy plate method Stalagmometric method Bubble pressure method Du Nouy-Paddy method Sessile drop method Spinning method Capillary rise method Resonant oscillations of a liquid drop spherical and hemispherical. Next TopicEnzyme Definition ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
