https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-sort-in-excel
How to sort in Excel - javatpoint
How to sort in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to sort in Excel? Sorting of data is an essential part of data analysis. In Excel, you can rearrange the data by sorting to find the record quickly. Data can be sorted in various ways, such as alphabetically (A to Z, Z to A), highest to lowest, lowest to highest, date & time-wise, and using many other ways. Sorting of data is always required for quick search; it arranges the data in a way that makes the data easy to search. If the data is sorted, it is easy to find any record in the table or Excel sheet. It saves the time of users by fast search in sorted data. Excel provides an in-built function named as SORT() to arrange the data in sorted manner. This chapter will define how one can sort data in Excel. How can be the different data sorted? The text data can be sorted alphabetically, i.e., A to Z or Z to A. Numeric data can be sorted by range, i.e., highest to lowest or lowest to highest. Date and Time wise, i.e., newest to oldest or oldest to newest. You can follow any of the techniques to sort your Excel data. In an Excel sheet/table, you can sort one or more columns. For example, sort the employee table records, first by their salaries and then their last name. How to sort in Excel? Here, we will define you how one can sort data in Excel. Excel provides SORT function to arrange the data in a manner. You can manually sort the table data by entering the formula and providing the required parameters. Otherwise, Excel offers shortcuts to sort the data of Excel. First, we will describe you what a sort() function is, then will show you the steps to sort the data by taking different examples. What is sort() function? SORT() is a function that is used in Excel to sort the columns and arrange the table data. It allows the users to sort the data alphabetical, numeric, or date-wise. You can also make the group and then apply this sort() function to these groups individually. By default, it sorts the data of an Excel table in ascending order using the first column. Syntax Here is the syntax for the following sort() function having four parameters, in which one is permanent and the other three are optional: 
=SORT(array, [sortIndex], [sortOrder], [byColumn])
 Parameters array: It is a range or array in an Excel table selected for sorting. [sortIndex]: It is an optional parameter. In this parameter, specify the column number for sorting the table data. Its default value is 1, which means it choose first column of the Excel table. [sortOrder]: It is also an optional parameter. Using this parameter, you can specify the order of sorting. Its default value is also 1 means ascending order sorting. Pass 1 for ascending order sorting and -1 for descending order sorting. [byColumn]: It indicates either sorting by column or by row. Its default value is FALSE. TRUE - Sort by column FALSE - Sort by row Return Value The sort() function returns the array after sorting the data. Implementation of sort() formula (For Excel 365 subscription users) Now, we will show you how you can implement this formula in your Excel sheet. But this can only be implemented by Excel 365 subscription users. In Excel 2016, 2019, this way of sorting does not work. We have another method for this discussed in this chapter below. Step 1: We have this set of data containing Name and Age data in unsorted order. We will use the sort() function and rearrange it. Ascending Order Sorting Step 2: On the Excel home page, go to the formula bar and type this sort() formula to get the data sorted with respect to the Age column. 
=SORT(A2:B8, 2, 1)
 Here, A2:B8 are the source/range of array for sorting 2 is the specified column2 (Age) for sorting 1 is ascending order of sorting Step3: Now, press the Enter key and see the sorted result has been automatically pasted into new cells (D and E). Descending Order Sorting In this example, we will sort the Excel data by Name alphabetically in descending order. Step 1: On the Excel home page, go to the formula bar and type this sort() formula to get the data sorted with respect to the Name column. 
=SORT(A2:B8, 1, -1)
 Here, A2:B8 are the source/range of array for sorting 1 is the specified column1 (Name) for sorting -1 is descending order of sorting Step 2: Now, press the Enter key and see the sorted result has been automatically pasted into new cells (D and E). Excel Sort() function tip Currently, the sort() function cannot be manually typed and accessed in all Excel versions. It is only available for Microsoft 365 subscriptions. Excel 2016, 2019 does not support the sort() function. However, these versions have another way to use this formula from the Excel ribbon, which is discussed below in this chapter. If you will try to access this formula in other Excel except Microsoft 265, it will show this error. Sort the Data from Excel ribbon (For all Excel) It is not possible to remember all formulas of Excel and their parameters every time. So, Excel also provides one more way to use these formulas. Besides this method, we will also describe other ways of using the sort() function to sort the Excel data. Excel has added some most needed formulas in its ribbon for fast and easy access, which is efficient for the non-excel user. Use any of them which you find simple and easy. Here, we have several examples using different parameter values. Steps to sort the entire table data We have a simple data Excel table with two columns, name and age. Data of the table is not arranged yet. Now, we will sort this table of data with respect to the Name column alphabetically. Sort by text Here, we will sort the entire table data by a text string. We have few simple steps to sort the data alphabetically. Step 1: Create a table, same as ours or open your existing Excel sheet whose data you want to sort. Step 2: Select all data of the sheet to sort the entire Excel sheet using one column value. It means that when column values sort, its associated column data will also be sorted. Step 3: Now, navigate to the Data tab in the Excel menu bar, where you will get a Sort function option in Sort & Filter group. Click on this Sort option that will open a popup dialogue box. Step 5: In this dialogue box, specify/select a column from the list on the basis of which you want to sort the data. For Example, Product to sort the table. Step 6: Specify the order of sorting either A-to-Z or Z-to-A and click on the OK button. We will select ascending order (A-to-Z). Step 7: See that the entire table data has been sorted successfully according to your chosen column (Product) and order of sorting. Their associated row data also sorted. Sort only one column Sometimes, you only need to sort a single column data, but you do not want to entire table data. So, we will show one column can be sorted. Remember that sorting one column is easy than sorting the entire table. Step 1: Open your existing Excel sheet to sort the data and select a column that you want to sort. Step 2: Navigate to the Data tab in the Excel menu bar, where you will get the Sort function option. Step 3: If you want to sort in lowest to highest sorting order, click on the A-to-Z sorting button to sort. Step 4: If you want to sort in lowest to highest alphabetical sorting order, click on the Z-to-A sorting button. Step 5: A popup dialogue box will open when you select the order of sorting, as shown below. If you want to expand the sorting and rearrange the entire table data, mark the Expand the selection option. Step 6: If you want to sort only selected column data, mark the Continue with the current selection option. This time, we will sort only a single column value. So, we will select the Continue with the current selection option in this dialogue box and click on the Sort button here. Step 6: See the below screenshot; only selected column values have been sorted (A-to-Z order), and rest of the column data remained the same. Sort by Number Excel not only allows to sort the data alphabetically; it also allows to sort the table data using numeric data column data as well. So, we will sort data by number now. The process of sorting an Excel sheet using the number column is almost the same as sorting a table using string parameter. The means that it is almost the same as text sorting. The following are some simple steps to sort the data by number, either in ascending or descending order. Step 1: Create a table, same as ours or open your existing Excel sheet whose data you want to sort. Step 2: Select the numeric data column to sort that column data as well as the associated column with it. This means the entire table data will be sorted. For example, we will sort this table data based on the quantity of purchased products. Step 3: Now, navigate to the Data tab in the Excel menu bar, where you will get a Sort function option in Sort & Filter group. Click on this Sort option that will help to find the values quickly by sorting the data. Step 5: A dialogue box will open and ask either to expand the selection or continue with the current selection. Here, mark the Expand the selection radio button and click on the Sort button below. Step 6: Another dialogue box will show where specify/select a column from the list on the basis of which you want to sort the data. For Example, Quantity to sort the table. Step 6: Now, choose the order of sorting either smallest to largest or largest to smallest from the list and click on the OK button. We will select descending order (largest to smallest). Step 7: See that the entire table data has been sorted successfully according to your chosen column (Product) and order of sorting. Their associated row data also sorted. Other columns have also been sorted with the selected column data in descending order of quantity purchased. Next TopicHow to record a macro in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
