https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-remove-the-page-break-in-excel
How to remove the page break in Excel - javatpoint
How to remove the page break in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to remove the page break in Excel? Removing a page break from an Excel worksheet is as simple as inserting a page break into an Excel sheet. You can remove one or all page break at once added to your Excel file. Break function can also be used for removing the page break that provides one more option to remove all or one page break from the current Excel file. In the previous chapter, you had learned how a page break inserts into an Excel sheet. Now, you will learn how one can remove the page break added to an Excel sheet. In this chapter, we will show you each step to remove the page break from the Excel worksheet using two methods. Each method is equally important. Methods to remove page breaks In Excel, there are two different way to remove the page breaks. Remove a page break Remove vertical and horizontal page breaks at once using common cell Remove all the page breaks inserted to an Excel file Either remove one page break or remove all inserted page breaks. Both the methods used accordingly when needed. The steps are almost similar for both methods and have a bit different and the results are also different. In addition, Excel allows removing two page breaks at once by choosing a common cell where both vertical and horizontal page breaks meet. We will also describe this method. Remove a page break Excel provides this function to remove one/single page break. Using this method, we will remove the page break once at a time from an Excel file. We will use the Remove Page Break option to remove a single page break, either horizontal or vertical. Although you can also use this method to remove all page breaks added to an Excel sheet one by one, but it will take a lot of time. Therefore, excel provides one more function to remove all page breaks in one go, which you will see later in this chapter. So, here we have some simple steps to remove a page break. Follow them carefully: Remove Horizontal page break We will first remove the horizontal page break and then the vertical page break. Step 1: Open the Excel file in which page breaks are added and you want to remove them. We have this file having two page breaks in it at column E and 9th row, i.e., E9. Step 2: Go to that respective row or column from where you want to remove the page break. For example, If you want to remove vertical page break, select any cell of the respective column where page break is added. Select any of the cell of the respective row if you would like to remove the horizontal page break. We will first remove horizontal page break then vertical page break. Step 3: Navigate to the Page Layout in the Excel menu bar, where you will get the Breaks option residing in the Page Setup group. Step 4: Click on this Breaks dropdown list and choose the Remove Page Break option from here. Step 5: See that the horizontal page break has been removed successfully, but the vertical page break still remained the same. Remove Vertical page break Now, we will remove the vertical page break. Step 6: For this, select a cell corresponding to the vertical page break column. For example, here we will select any cell from the E column. Note: It is not mandatory to choose the first cell of the column. You can choose any of the cells but respect to the vertical page break column. Step 7: Navigate to the Page Layout in the Excel menu bar where you will get the Breaks option residing in the Page Setup group; click on it. Step 9: Here, choose and click on the Remove Page Break option from the list. Step 10: Now, you will see that the vertical page break has also been removed successfully. Remove vertical and horizontal page break at once It is a bit different way to remove vertical and horizontal page break together. It does not remove all the page breaks at once, but it removes maximum of two page break together for one division, one is horizontal, and another is vertical. It saves the time of users. To remove the page break using this method, you have to choose a cell where both vertical and horizontal page breaks meet. It is as simple as that you have to choose a common cell for it. In the following steps, you will see how it will be done. See the below steps to remove two page breaks at once: Step 1: Open the Excel file in which page breaks are added and you want to remove them. We have this Excel file having page break at the E column and 9th row. Step 2: Go to that cell where both vertical and horizontal page break grey lines meet. Select this cell. You can see that the E9 cell is a common cell for both vertical and horizontal page breaks. Step 3: Navigate to the Page Layout in Excel menu bar where you will get the Breaks option residing in the Page Setup group; click on it. Step 4: Here, choose and click on the Remove Page Break option from the list. Step 5: Now, you will see that both vertical and horizontal page breaks have also been removed successfully in one go. This method is a bit fast than the first method because it removes more than one page break at once but not all. So, when it comes to remove all page breaks added to an Excel sheet, use the next method to save your time and effort. Remove all page breaks This method is used when the user needs to remove all the page breaks from the Excel file. Removing page breaks one by one takes too much time. So, this method helps the users and saves their time. Using this method, we will remove all page break added to an Excel file in one go. We will use the Reset All Page Breaks option to remove all the page breaks. It will reset all the page breaks and the Excel file will become a normal Excel file. Steps are almost similar of both methods. So, here we have some simple steps to remove all page breaks in one go. Follow them carefully: Step 1: Open the Excel file in which page breaks are added and you want to remove them. We have this file having two page breaks in it at column D and 8th row, i.e., D8. Step 2: Navigate to the Page Layout in the Excel menu bar, where you will get the Breaks option residing in the Page Setup group. Step 3: Click on this Breaks dropdown list option and choose Reset All Page Breaks here. Note: Reset All Page Breaks option will enable only when there might be any page break added to your Excel sheet. Otherwise, this option will be disabled. Step 4: Once you click on it, you will see that all manually added page breaks have been removed and the Excel file will become normal without having any manual page break. So, this method saves the time of users to removing page break one by one like the first one method. Next TopicHow to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
