https://www.javatpoint.com/quantum-physics
Quantum Physics - Javatpoint
Quantum Physics - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Quantum Physics Quantum physics is a branch of physics that is the study of matter and energy. The matter is composed of a large number of oscillating particles, which vibrate with different frequencies. These particles of the matter and have any value of frequency and vibrations. Energy comes in the form of packets called quanta. These packets cannot be divided further into components. Thus, quantum physics is a modern physical that is based on theoretical concepts. Quantum physics and Quantum Mechanics Quantum mechanics was developed from the basics of Quantum physics. Quantum physics is a study of particles and matter at the atomic level, while Quantum mechanics is the study of particles and matter at a more specific level. We can also say that it is the study at the subatomic level. Let's discuss the development of Quantum physics and Quantum mechanics. In the early, Quantum physics and its laws were unable to follow the classical mechanic's laws. Hence, it was named Quantum theory. It is the theoretical approach rather than the practical one. Hence, we can say that Quantum physics is generally called Quantum theory. Around the 1920s, mathematical laws were developed by the physicist that described the Quantum theory. After the development of such laws, physicists called it Quantum mechanics or classical mechanics. Thus, we can say that Quantum physics is similar to Quantum mechanics. The difference lies in the theory and the mathematical calculations. Here, we will generally discuss the Quantum theory, which refers to the theoretical Quantum mechanics. The topics discussed in this topic are as follows: History Black Body Quantum theory of Radiations Uncertainty Principle Schrödinger Equation Symmetry Quantum States Dirac Equation Properties of Photons Collision between photon and Matter particle Photoelectric Effect Long Wavelength Kinetic Energy of Photoelectrons Types of Photoelectric cell History The discovery of cathode rays by Michael Faraday in 1838 led to the development of the statement of black-body radiation. The Quantum theory was proposed by Max Planck (German physicist) around 1900 when he was trying to discover the shape of the black body radiation curve. Einstein extended the Quantum theory around 1905. It covered all the radiations, including light rays and Gamma rays. At the end of the 117th century, a Corpuscular theory was developed by Newton. According to the theory, light consists of a stream of invisible fast-moving particles called corpuscles. Around 1864, the theory was followed by Maxwell's electromagnetic theory. According to the Maxwell theory, light consists of electric and magnetic stress changes that originated in the motion of the electricity. Quantum physics was further modified in modern times to Quantum mechanics. Around the 1920s, Quantum mechanics became the standard formulation of atomic physics. It comprises various disciplines, such as Quantum chemistry, Quantum electronics, etc. It provides a useful framework for modern technologies. For example, describing chemical bonding and electrons' behavior in the semiconductor and macroscopic phenomenon in superconductors. Black Body The black body or surface is a good absorber of heat. It means that it is also a good absorber of heat radiations. The black body defined by the physicist is not a perfect body. It is defined as a body that can absorb the entire wavelengths incident on it. The emitted radiations by the black body are known as black body radiations. Quantum theory of Radiations After the development of quantum theory by Max Planck in 1900, Einstein extended the theory around 1905. Planck's study of black body radiations concludes that absorption or emission of thermal energy is not a continuous process. It takes place in discrete forms. According to the Einstein theory, The light energy is emitted by the indivisible amounts of radiant energy called quanta. The quanta travel in space in the form of packets or bundles. These packets are called photons. It carries a definite amount of energy. The energy carried by a particular phone is given by: E = hf Where, h is the Planck's constant. f is the frequency of radiation. For example, The photons can be of high frequency or low frequency. The high-frequency photons are those of Gamma rays, while low-frequency photons are of radio waves. Quantum States Quantum state is defined as the entity that provides the probability distribution of the outcomes. It is calculated for every possible measurement of the system. The knowledge about Quantum states helps us to predict about the system's behavior. Quantum states are categorized as pure Quantum states and mixed Quantum states. The pure Quantum states cannot be written as the mixture of other states, while mixed Quantum states can be expressed in the form of other states or mixed states. Let the 2D vector components be a and b. A pure Quantum state can be expressed as: |a|^2 + |b|^2 = 1 Where, |a| and |b| are called as absolute values of a and b. The probability distribution for various measurements is illustrated by the uncertainty principle. The uncertainty principle illustrates the probability distribution for various measurements. It is a mathematical inequality that can determine certain physical quantities, such as momentum, position, particle, and initial conditions. The uncertainty principle was introduced in 1927 by the German theoretical physicist Werner Karl Heisenberg. Schrödinger Equation The Schrodinger equation describes the position and energy of the electron in space and time. It is defined as a mathematical expression that was named after the Austrian-iris physicist Erwin Schrodinger. The Schrodinger equation for a single non-realistic in one dimension is represented as: The above equation's wave function assigns a complex number to the point x and each instance of time t. Here, V(x, t) is the potential, and m is the particle's mass. H is the Planck's constant. The physical quantities of interest are the operators acting on the Hilbert space. The quantities are position, momentum, and energy. The time dependent Schrodinger equation is represented as: Where, The Greek letter psi is the state vector. T is the time. H is the Hamiltonian operator. The Hamiltonian operator corresponds to the kinetic energy and potential energy of the system. These two energies together constitute the total energy of the system. The probability density function can be represented as the square of the absolute value of the wave function. Properties of Photons Let's discuss some properties of photons. Energy The energy of a photon is represented by hf. It is different for different kinds of radiation. According to Quantum physics, a photon's energy is always considered an integral multiple of hf. Where, E = nhf But, it is not similar in the case of quantum mechanics. The energy of a photon, according to Quantum mechanics is represented as: E = (n + ½) hf n anf f are the integer value and the frequency. The energy of a photon depends on the frequency of the radiations. It means that the energy of a photon is independent of the intensity. Mass of a photon The mass energy relation is expressed as: E = mc^2 Where, m is the mass of the photon c is the speed of the light m = E/ c^2 m = hf / c^2 We can also write it as: Momentum of a photon The momentum can be expressed as: P = mc P = hf / c^2 We can also write it as: The photons are electrically neutral. It means that the photons are not affected under the application of electric and magnetic fields. The methods used to measure the photons' energy or intensity are different from the ordinary method used for other charge carriers. Collision between photon and Matter particle The law of conservation of energy applies when the photons collides with the particles of matter. The photons during a collision can disappear or appear, as shown below: The above figure shows removal or disappearance of photons. Similarly, the above figure shows the appearance of photons. We can also say that photons can be created or destroyed. We know that the energy of the photon is given as: E = hf Where, h is the Planck's constant and f is the frequency of radiations. The kinetic energy lost or gained by the photon is ½ mv^2. K.E = ½ mv^2 Where, m is the mass of a particle v is the velocity According to the law of conservation of energy, hf = ½ mv^2 If the material particles carry a charge and are accelerated by the potential difference V, the kinetic energy is eV. hf = eV Thus, we can say that: ½ mv^2 = hf = eV From the above equation, we can easily find out the charged material particle's velocity and the frequency of radiations. Velocity of the charged material particle 1. Frequency of the emitted radiations The frequencies of the radiations are emitted when the accelerated charged particle hits the metal surface. The relation can be represented as: hf = eV Photoelectric Effect The photoelectric effect is defined as the process of the ejection of the electrons from a metal surface when radiations or light of a suitable wavelength falls on a metal. The emitted electrons are not different from the usual electrons. The term photoelectron is used to depict electrons' ejection after the fall of radiations on the metal surface. Long Wavelength The wavelength corresponding to the threshold frequency is known as the long wavelength. It is represented as: The wavelength of the incident radiations longer than the long wavelength would not be able to eject electrons from the given material. It can be represented as: It means that the wavelength of the incident radiations less than the long wavelength can emit electrons from the given material. Such wavelength is also known as threshold wavelength. Where, fo is the threshold frequency. It is defined as the minimum frequency that can cause photoelectric emission. Wo is the photoelectric work function. h is the Planck's constant. c is the speed of light. Kinetic Energy of Photoelectrons The Einstein's photoelectric equation can be used to find the velocity and the kinetic energy of the ejected photoelectron. hf = Wo + ½ mv^2 = hfo + K.E. K.E. = hf - hfo K.E. = h (f - fo) We know that, Hence, we can write the above equation as: Types of Photoelectric cell The photoelectric cells convert the light energy to electric energy. The circuit comprises of two electrodes (cathode and anode) and an evacuated glass tube. The photoelectric cells are categorized as: Photo emissive cell Photovoltaic cell Photoconductive cell Let's discuss the above three types of cells in detail. Photoemissive cell The photoemissive cell consists of two metallic electrodes (cathode and anode) fitted with a base like a thermionic valve, as shown below: When the cathode is illuminated, the electrons emitted from the cathode are attracted by the positive electrode anode. Thus, the magnitude of the current produced through the flow of electrons depends on the intensity of the incident radiations and anode-to-cathode voltage. The use of photoemissive cells includes photometry, calorimetry, etc. Photovoltaic cell The photovoltaic cell uses a semiconductor contact instead of metals. The incident light causes the generation of internal voltage. It results in the flow of current even if the external battery is not connected to the circuit. The circuit of the photovoltaic cell is shown below: It does not require any external battery for its operation, which is its main advantage. The common photovoltaic cells are the iron selenium cells or Cu-CuO2 cells. The current generated by these cells is large enough to be measured. Hence, it is used in applications, such as portable exposure meters, low resistance relays, etc. Photoconductive cell The performance of the photoconductive cell is based on the resistivity of the semiconductor. The simplest form of a photoconductive cell is shown below: The resistivity decreases when these are irradiated. It means that the semiconductors have low irradiated resistance. The irradiation means the exposure to radiation on the substance. The commonly used cell is the CdS cell, as shown below: The photoconductive cell comprises the two electrodes and the semiconductor material. When light falls on the cell, its resistance decreases, and the current becomes large. The current becomes small when there is no illumination. The photoconductive cell is used in applications to detect ships and aircraft, etc. Applications of Quantum theory The concept of Quantum theory is the basis for various applications based on our day-to-day life. A common example is the use of computers. The concept of working on a computer is based on Quantum physics. Other applications include Quantum optics, Quantum chemistry, Quantum computing, optical amplifiers, Superconducting magnets, laser, superconducting magnets, transistors, semiconductors, etc. Next TopicUses of computer in Hospitals ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
