https://www.javatpoint.com/apache-solr
Apache Solr Tutorial - javatpoint
Apache Solr Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Apache Solr Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML Python CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Solr Tutorial Apache Solr Tutorial Getting started Installing Apache Solr Apache Solr on Hadoop Apache Solr Architecture General Terminology Basic Commands Indexing in Apache Solr Text Analysis Adding Document Updating Document Using XML Deleting Document Retrieving Data Querying Data Apache Solr Faceting next ? Apache Solr Tutorial Solr is a specific NoSQL technology that is optimized for a unique class of problems. Solr is a scalable, ready-to-deploy enterprise search engine that was developed to search a large volume of text-centric data and returns results sorted by relevance. The following are the benefits of Apache Solr: Scalable: It scales by distributing indexing and query processing to multiple servers in a cluster. Ready to deploy: It is open-source, easy to install and configure, and provides a preconfigured example to help you get started. Optimized for search: It is fast and can execute complex queries in a fraction of second speed, often only tens of milliseconds. Large volumes of documents: It is designed to deal with indexes containing many millions of documents. Text-centric: It is optimized for searching natural-language text, like emails, web pages, resumes, PDF documents, and social messages such as tweets or blogs. Results sorted by relevance: It returns documents in ranked order based on how relevant each document is to the user's query. Note: Solar isn't a web search engine like Google or Bing and had nothing to do with search engine optimization for a website. Why do we need a Search Engine? Search Engines mainly work as filters for the need of information available on the World Wide Web. It allows us to quickly and easily find any information about their interest or value, without the need to go through numerous irrelevant web pages. The goal of the Search Engines is to give users filtered search results that lead to relevant information on high-quality websites where a huge number of data is available, such as- JavaTpoint, Wikipedia, etc. Features Overview Let us briefly explain some random key features of Solr that are organized along with the following categories: User experience Data modeling A new feature in Solr User-experience features Apache Solr provides several important features that can be used to deliver a search solution that's easy to use, initiative, and powerful. It only exposes a REST-like HTTP API and cannot provide a search-related UI component in any language or framework. Following are the UI components that take advantage of some of the following user experience features: Pagination and sorting: Solr is optimized to serve pagination and requests rather than returning all matching documents, in which only the top N documents are returned on the first page. If users don't find what they're looking for on the first page. Faceting: It provides users with tools to refine their search criteria and discover more information by categorizing search results into subgroups using facets. Autosuggest: It can be used by the users who expect that their search application to "do the right thing" even if they fill the incomplete information. It allows users to see the lists of suggested terms and phrases based on documents in your index. Spell-checker: It can be used to automatically correct the word we want to write. Users expect the search engine to handle misspelling gracefully. Hit highlighting: It can be used to show the specific sections of each document. Geospatial search: It can be used by solr to sort the documents by distance from geolocation. Audience This online tutorial will be helpful for all those students and developers who would like to understand the basic functionalities of Apache Solr for the development of sophisticated and high-performing applications. Objective In this Solr tutorial, we will learn how to use Solr to design and implement scalable search solutions. We will begin with the types of data and use cases supported by Solr. It will help us understand where Solr fits into the big picture of modern application architectures. Prerequisite Before you start learning with this tutorial, we expect that you have good knowledge of Java programming. It is not mandatory. Still, it will help to understand better Solr and some prior exposure to Lucene and Hadoop environment. Problem We assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning through our Solr tutorial. But if you find any mistake in this tutorial, we request you to kindly post the problem in the contact form so that we can improve it. Next TopicGetting started with Apache Solr next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
