https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-import-the-data-from-csv-file-in-excel
How to import the data from CSV file in Excel - javatpoint
How to import the data from CSV file in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to import the data from CSV file in Excel CSV refers to the Comma Separated Values, which indicates the method of storing data. CSV file is basically a comma-separated value file that saves the tabular data in plain text. It is used by many popular spreadsheet programs, such as Excel spreadsheets and Google spreadsheets. CSV data is plain text values separated by comma but stored in tabular form. CSV file is a simple text file that does not contain any formatting, editing, macros, or maths operations. Besides that, the CSV file does not allow data manipulation. Therefore, CSV files are also known as flat files. It stores the data in tabular form, same as Excel and its extension is .csv. Why CSV data need to import in Excel file CSV file is a simple text file that does not contain any formatting, editing, macros, or maths operations. CSV files are also called as flat files because CSV file does not allow data manipulation. So, you have to import the data to an Excel sheet to perform manipulation on data. Import the CSV file data to the Excel worksheet, then you are allowed to perform operations on it. We have discussed the steps for importing data to an Excel file with the help of an example. This chapter will show you how easily Excel users can import the CSV file data into an Excel worksheet. Let' see how it can be done. Steps to import CSV data to Excel file Following are the steps to import the CSV file data into Excel file: Step 1: First of all, open a blank Excel file and navigate to the Data tab in the Excel menu bar. Step 2: In the Data ribbon, you will see a Get Extern Data dropdown button; click on it. Step 3: From this dropdown list, click on the From Text option. From text option will allow importing plain text data (CSV data) to the Excel sheet. Step 4: Browse the CSV file in your system folder, select it and click on the Import button at last. Now, you have to complete three steps: Choose the file type that can best describe your data and specify if the data has a header. Set the delimiters that your data will contain in Excel. Set the column data format to General. Step 5: A text import wizard will open. Here, chooses the file type Delimited that will best describe our data. In the same wizard, mark the "My data has header" and then click on the Next button. Step 6: Set the comma delimiter here. Mark the Comma checkbox and see the preview how data will be visible in the Excel worksheet after importing. Click the Next button. Step 7: In the third/last step, set the column format to General by marking the radio button and Finish the task. Step 8: A new popup panel will open where select the cell from where you want to import the CSV file data and click on the OK button. You can also select another cell back on the Excel worksheet from where the CSV file will start importing. Step 9: Your CSV file data has been successfully imported to the Excel file. Now, you are allowed to data manipulation operations on it. CSV file data has been imported in different columns as you have marked the Comma delimiter checkbox in step 6. What if do not mark comma delimiter option? In case you do not mark the comma delimiter, all the data of a row will insert into a single column separated by a comma, as shown in the below preview section. See how data will look like after importing in Excel worksheet. It is not so readable because everything is adjusted in a single column. How CSV file is different from Excel file CSV file and Excel worksheet both are used for storing the data in tabular form. But both have some differences; see the list below: CSV file Excel file CSV file is a simple plain text file, which stores data in tabular form that does not contain formatting, editing, macros, or maths operations. Excel file stores data in tabular form, which can have formatting, macros, manipulation operations on data. CSV file does not allow data manipulation. For performing operations on CSV data, you have to import it to an Excel sheet. Unlike CSV files, Excel allows to perform data manipulation on its data. CSV files can be edited by any text editor, like Notepad, Wordpad. Excel files cannot be edited in any text editor. It means that Excel can only be opened in MS Excel only. CSV files are easy to manipulate programmatically because these are simple text files. As a developer, it is not easy to manipulate the Excel file programmatically because Excel is propriety. CSV file restricts to perform various functionalities on its data. Excel allows data manipulation as well as fetch data from external sources. In the CSV file, you cannot add charts or graphs. It simply stores each record as one line of text file separated by a comma. In the Excel file, you can add charts, graphs and add formatting to the Excel data. .csv is the extension of CSV file. .xls or xlsx is the file extension of Excel file. Next TopicHow to unlock scroll lock in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
