https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-add-remove-password-from-excel
How to add/remove Password from Excel - javatpoint
How to add/remove Password from Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to add/remove Password from Excel In Microsoft Excel, a password is used to protect your important information (personal or sensitive). You can enable a password to protect data so that only users who know the password can make changes. Sometimes it can be frustrating when you want to access your data and you forgot the password. On this page, we are going to discuss that how to add/remove Password from Excel. Remove password from Excel Microsoft Excel provides the easiest methods to remove passwords from the Excel spreadsheet. The most commonly used method to remove password from Excel document is discussed below - Remove password when you know the current password Remove password when you forgot the current password Case 1: Remove password when you know the current password Anyone who knows the current password can be removed the Excel worksheet's password. Method 1: Remove Excel password using Info Feature Steps to remove password There are the following steps to remove Password security easily from Excel - Step 1: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel document in which you want to change or remove the password. Step 2: Once you open the Excel sheet, a small Password dialog box will appear to enter the Password. Type your current password in the Password dialog box and click on the OK button to open password protected sheet. Step 3: Click on the File tab at the top most left corner of the Microsoft Excel document. A list of File options will appear on the screen. Click on the Info. Step 4: Click on the drop-down icon associate with the Protect Workbook. A list of Protect Workbook options will appear on the screen. Click on the Encrypt with Password option from the list. Note: In the older Microsoft Excel version, click on the Protect document and then select Encrypt with Password. Step 5: A small Encrypt Document dialog box pops up to remove the previous password by pressing the backspace key from the keyboard and click on the OK button. Step 6: After completing the above steps, Save the Excel document (go to File tab -> Save) to remove the password from the document. Now, your Microsoft Excel document opens directly without entering the password. Method 2: Remove Password from Excel document using Save as button If you know the password of the current Excel document, then the Save as button is the best method to remove the password from the document. Steps to remove password from the document is as follows - Step 1: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel document in which you want to change or remove the password. Step 2: Once you open the Excel sheet, a small Password dialog box will appear to enter the password. Type your current password in the Password dialog box and click on the OK button to open password protected sheet. Step 3: Click on the File tab. Click on the Save As button from the list of File options. Step 4: Browse the location where you want to save the Excel document after removing the password. Note: In the older version of Microsoft Excel. Click on the Microsoft Office and then click on the Save As button. Step 5: Enter your file name and click on the Tools option before saving the File. Click on the General Options from the Tools drop-down menu. Step 6: A General Options dialog box will appear. Remove password from the password to open text box and click on the OK button at the bottom of the General Options dialog box. Step 7: Save your current Microsoft Excel document. Now, you are able to open the Microsoft Excel document without entering the password. Method 3: Remove Excel restriction password to unprotect the Worksheet It is the most popular, quickest, and easy to use method to remove the password from the Excel document. In this method, the Review tab on the Ribbon is used to unprotect the Excel worksheet. The advantage of this method is that it can be work with any file type, including add-ins as well as macros. Steps to Remove Password Steps to Remove Password from Microsoft Excel document is discussed below - Step 1: Open the Microsoft Excel document in which you want to remove the password. Step 2: Once you open the Excel sheet, a small Password dialog box will appear to enter the password. Type your current password in the Password dialog box and click on the OK button to open password protected sheet. Step 3: Click on the Review tab next to the Data tab on the Ribbon. Review options will navigate. Click on the Unprotect Sheet tab in the Changes section. Step 4: A small Unprotect Sheet dialog box will appear. Enter your Password in the password text box and click on the OK button. Note: You can also Right-click on the selected data and then click on the Unprotect Sheet option from the list to Open the Unprotect Sheet dialog box. After completing the above steps, you can see that password is removed from the Microsoft Excel sheet. Case 2: Remove Password from Excel if you forgot the current password Microsoft Excel also provides an excellent way to remove a password if you have forgotten the current password. Method 1: Using PassFeb for Excel tool PassFeb for Excel is one of the best online Excel tools used to remove the password when you forgot the password. It uses three strong encryption techniques, which are Brute force with Mask Attack, Brute force Attack, and Dictionary Attack, to recover the password. The main disadvantage of the PassFeb for Excel tool is that its free version is not available, and it takes more time to recover the password. Steps to Install the PassFeb for Excel tool Step 1: Open any browser and download the PassFeb for Excel tool. Step 2: Once PassFeb for Excel executable file download, click on the executable file. Step 3: A License Agreement dialog box will appear. Tick the I accept the agreement radio button and click on the Next button at the bottom of the dialog box. Step 4: Browse the location where you want to install the software and click on the Next button. Step 5: Software installation is in progress. Step 6: Once the installation process is completed, click on the Finish button. Steps to remove password from Excel Step 1: Launch the PassFeb for the Excel tool. You will see that two options Recover Excel Open Password and Remove Excel Restriction Password. Click on the Recover Excel Open Password option (Refer to the below screenshot) Step 2: Click on the import Excel file button and browse the file in which you want to remove the password. Click any decryption method. Click on the Recover button. Step 3: The software will start the process of decrypting the password for your Excel document. Note: The time duration to decrypt the password depends upon the method you select. Step 4: When the Encryption password process is completed, your recovery password will be displayed in the text box. Step 5: Now, you can follow anyone method mentioned in the Remove password when you know the current password to remove the password. Next TopicHow to use MS Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
