https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-joints
Types of Joints - Javatpoint
Types of Joints - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Joints In humans and other vertebrates, a framework of bones is formed called the skeletal system. About 206 bones in the adult human body give structural shape, provide protection for inner organs, and help in locomotion (body movements). Bones in different parts of the body are connected in such a way that they can easily move accordingly. To facilitate proper movements, different joints exist in the human body. In this article, we are discussing the major types of joints which are present in the human body. Before discussing the various joints types, let us first discuss the definition of a joint and its major components: What is a Joint? In particular, a joint refers to the point where two or more objects connect. In context to the human body or the skeleton system, a joint refers to a point where two bones intersect. In other words, a joint is characterized by the connection that occurs between the bones in the skeletal system. The joint is also referred to as an articulation/ articular surface. By definition, "a joint refers to a point where two bones connect to establish a framework that permits movements." The joints are essential organs for almost all body movements that involve bones. Because of the joints, we move our body parts. For example, bending our knees or elbows, rotating our shoulders, swiveling our neck, etc. In particular, the muscles' force is utilized to carry out movements through different types of joints. However, the degree and ease of movement at various joints depend on lots of factors. Some common areas where joints occur in the human body are displayed in the following image: Bones are typically connected on joints using some tissue and other components to make them functional. Components of Joints Joints typically consist of the following major parts: Cartilage: Cartilage is defined as the tissue covering the bone's surface at joints. This mainly helps in reducing the friction of movement within the joints. Synovial Membrane: Synovial membrane is a type of tissue that typically helps to line the joints and seal them into a joint capsule. Furthermore, it secretes a clear, sticky fluid (synovial fluid) around the joints to lubricate them. Ligaments: Ligaments are defined as rigid elastic bands of connective tissue surrounding the joints to add additional support and limit the joints' movements. In particular, ligaments help to connect the bones. Tendons: Tendons are another strong connective tissue that mainly helps to connect muscles with bones. They are present on each side of joints attaching muscles to control the joints' movements. Bursas: Bursas are typical fluid-filled sacs commonly found between bones, ligaments, or other nearby structures. The primary function of the bursas is to help reduce the friction of joints. Synovial Fluid: The synovial fluid is a clear, viscous fluid secreted by the synovial membrane. Meniscus: The meniscus is a distinctly curved part of the cartilage found in the knees and other joints. Types of Joints Different types of joints mainly define degrees and types of movement on the corresponding part of the body where they are used. They can be easily classified based on the following two types: Functional Classification of Joints Structural Classification of Joints Let us discuss each in detail: Classification of Joints based on the Functionality The joints' functional classification is primarily based on the type of movements or the type and degree of permission. Depending on the type and degree of movement allowed, the joints are divided into three types such as immovable, slightly movable, and freely movable joints. Each type is mentioned below with examples: Immovable Joints Immovable joints refer to all such joints that do not allow any movement. These joints are also called Synarthrosis. The sutures found in the skull and gomphosis that connect teeth to the skull are the common examples of immovable joints. Slightly Movable Joints Slightly movable joints typically allow very little movement at the joints. These joints are also called Amphiarthrosis. The intervertebral disks found in the spine and the public symphysis found in hips are common examples of the slightly movable joints. Freely Movable Joints Another type of joint is the freely movable joints, also called diarthrosis joints. These are joints that allow the highest range of movements than other types of joints. They are the most flexible and allow our body-parts to move in different directions freely. Examples of freely movable joints include the wrist, shoulder, knee, elbow, etc. Classification of Joints based on the Structure Based on joints' structural classification, there are mainly three types: fibrous, cartilaginous, and synovial joints. Let us discuss each in detail: Fibrous Joints Fibrous joints are the simplest type of joints and have very little to no mobility. This means that joints are present in those body areas where bones have no flexibility or require no motion. In fibrous joints, the adjacent bones are connected using the fibrous connective tissue. Since there is no space left between the bones, most fibrous joints do not permit any movement. In another way, the movements are minor and so are almost negligible. These immovable or fixed joints are interlocked with irregular edges in a distinct style. In particular, fibrous joints are formed mainly to create a structure for the human body's specific part. These joints are usually found in three distinct parts of the body, depending on their types. Fibrous joints are further sub-divided into the following three types: Sutures: Sutures can be found in the skull by three years of age. They are soft areas/ regions that typically fuse between cranial bones and often called cranial sutures. In simple words, sutures are joints that usually help in holding the skull bones tightly by using the short connective tissue fibers (called sutural ligaments). Besides, the adjacent bones ossify over time, and therefore, suture lines are usually obliterated. Syndesmoses: The second type of fibrous joints is termed syndesmoses. Syndesmoses represent joints where bones are interconnected using the band of connective tissue (called interosseous ligaments). This eventually allows very little movement to connective tissue fibers, and the amount of movement mainly depends on the length of individual fibers. Gomphosis: The third and final fibrous joints are gomphosis and are found in the mouth. Gomphoses (plural of gomphosis) refer to the points in which the teeth' pegged end is joined with the dental alveoli. In simple words, gomphosis is found between teeth and their sockets. The tooth is bound to its sockets using a connective tissue named periodontal ligament. Cartilaginous Joints Cartilaginous joints are identified by the joints where bones are connected using the cartilage. These joints typically allow movements more than the fibrous joints but less than the synovial joints. In other words, these joints are partially movable. Cartilaginous joints permit a range of movements lying between movements allowed through fibrous and synovial joints. Cartilaginous joints are further sub-divided into the following two types: Synchondrosis joints: Synchondrosis joints are often termed primary cartilaginous joints. In these joints, the hyaline cartilage usually meets with bones. Syynchondrosis joints are found in the epiphyseal (growth) plates of growing bones in young children. The epiphyseal plates found at each end of long bones mainly help to grow bones in children. Besides, these cartilaginous joints are temporary and typically last until the end of children's puberty. Symphysis Joints: Symphysis joints or symphyses are often called the secondary cartilaginous joints. These joints are mainly found along the midline of the body and are permanent. Generally, symphysis joints involve adjacent bone surfaces lined with hyaline cartilage and connected by fibrous tissue. These joints can have some degree of mobility, allowing very little movement. Sometimes, there can also be joint cavities, but they will never be synovial. The common examples of symphysis joints include the intervertebral joints, pubic symphysis, and the manubriosternal angle of Louis. Synovial Joints Synovial joints are the most common types of joints in the human body, and they are joints helping us perform movements. These types of joints typically have space between the adjacent bones. This space is known as the synovial cavity, and it consists of synovial fluid. The synovial fluid mainly takes part in lubricating the joints to reduce the friction between the bones. As a result, synovial joints provide a range of movements such as walking, dancing, typing, and many more. Apart from this, the ends of bones are covered with a protected layer of articular cartilage, and an articular capsule further protects the whole joint. The articular capsule consists of connective tissue and permits movements in proper directions, blocking the wrong direction movements. Furthermore, it also provides ligaments to hold the bones tightly. Major examples of synovial joints are shoulders, elbows, and knees. Synovial joints are further sub-divided into the following six types: Ball and Socket Joints: In these types of joints, the rounded head of one bone is hooked up into the cup of another bone. Ball and socket joints typically allow movements in almost all directions, including the forward, backward, sideways, and rotary movements. The most common examples of ball and socket joints are the shoulder joints and hip joints. Hinge Joints: Hinge joints are similar to the door, allowing us to open and close in one direction in a single plane. More specifically, hinge joints allow movements in only forward and backward directions (bending and straightening movements across one plane). The common examples of hinge joints are fingers, elbows, knee, ankle, toes, etc. Condyloid Joints: Condyloid joints refer to all those joints that contain two axes to move, but there is no support for the rotation. These types of joints mainly allow side-by-side movements and up-down movements. Condyloid joints are also called condylar, or ellipsoid joints. These joints are found in the fingers' base (primarily for the index finger), wrist carpals, wrist joints, and elbows. Pivot Joints: Pivot joints are known for providing limited rotary movements. The full rotation is impossible in these joints because one bone is typically tapped into the other bone so that the first one can only swivel in a ring area formed by a second bone. These joints usually permit sideways and back-forth movements. Pivot joints are also called pivotal joints, rotary joints, and trochoid joints. The pivot joint can be found at the top of the neck between the atlas and axis bones (between the first and second vertebrae in your neck). Another example includes the joints found between ulna and radius bones that mainly help in rotating the forearm. Gliding Joints: Gliding joints are joints that only allow two or more flat or round bones to move freely simultaneously. The bones do not rub or crush on one another. Gliding joints are also called the plane joints and planar joints. Gliding joints are the common type of synovial joints. These joints are found in those parts of the body where the two different bones meet and slip over one another in any direction. Major examples of gliding joints include the ankle joints to the lower legs and intercarpal joints in the hands. Saddle Joints: Saddle joints do not permit rotation. They are formed in such a way that they only allow the movements on two planes. Saddle joints are biaxial and typically allow flexion/ extension, adduction/ abduction, or circumduction. The thumb is the only bone that contains saddle joints between the first metacarpal and trapezium. We can move a thumb in back-forth and side-ways directions due to saddle joints, crossing it over the palm. Ranges of Motion at Joints Based on the axes, there are mainly four different types of ranges of motion at joints. Based on the location of joints, they can be uniaxial, biaxial, polyaxial, or gliding. Uniaxial: The joints which allow movements in a single axis come to the category of uniaxial. They typically enable moving bones back and forth along the axis. Biaxial: The joints permitting movement about two distinct axes come to the category of biaxial. Polyaxial: The joints that usually allow movements along all three axes come to the category of polyaxial. Gliding Movements: Gliding movement refers to the types of joints that only allow bones to slide over one another. This mainly includes the flat bones. Next TopicTypes of Volcanoes ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
