https://www.javatpoint.com/positive-testing-vs-negative-testing
The difference between Positive Testing and Negative Testing - javatpoint
The difference between Positive Testing and Negative Testing - javatpoint ? Home Software Testing Compiler Java COA Computer Network HTML CSS Selenium Servlet JSP jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Software Testing Tutorial Software Testing Principles Software Development Life Cycle Software Testing Life Cycle Types of Software Testing SDLC models Waterfall model Spiral Model Hybrid Model Prototype Model V-model Types of Testing Manual Testing Automation Testing Types of Manual White Box Testing Black Box Testing Grey Box Testing White Box Techniques Data Flow Testing Control Flow Testing Branch Coverage Testing Statement Coverage Testing Decision Coverage Testing Black Box Techniques Decision Table All-pair Testing Cause-Effect Testing State Transition Use Case Types of Black Box Functional Testing Non-Functional Testing Types of Functional Unit Testing Integration Testing System Testing Types of Non-functional Performance Testing Usability Testing Compatibility Testing Test case development Testing Documentation Test Scenario Test Case Testing Techniques Error Guessing Equivalence Portioning Boundary Value analysis Test Management Test Plan Test case review process Requirement Traceability Matrix Defect Tracking Bug in Software Testing Bug Life cycle Severity & Priority Test Environment Other types of Testing Regression Testing Smoke Testing Sanity Testing Static Testing Dynamic Testing Load Testing Stress Testing Recovery testing Exploratory Testing Visual Testing Acceptance Testing Alpha Testing Beta Testing Database Testing Mainframe Testing Adhoc Testing Globalization Testing Mutation Testing Security Testing Accessibility Testing Structural Testing Volume Testing Scalability Testing Stability Testing Spike Testing Negative Testing Positive Testing Software Testing Tools Software testing tools Test management tools Defect/Bug tracking tools Automation testing tools Performance testing tools Cross-browser testing tools Integration testing tools Unit testing tools Mobile Testing Tools GUI testing tools Security testing tools Penetration Testing Tools Differences Automation Testing vs Manual Testing Load Testing vs Stress Testing Smoke Testing vs Sanity Testing System Testing vs Acceptance Testing Quality Assurance vs Quality Control Static Testing vs Dynamic Testing Verification vs Validation Testing Alpha Testing vs Beta Testing Black Box vs. White Box vs. Grey Box Testing Globalization Testing vs Localization Testing Test Case vs Test Scenarios Test Plan vs Test Strategy Boundary value analysis vs Equivalence partitioning SDLC vs STLC Bug vs Defect vs Error vs Fault vs Failure Testing vs Debugging Frontend Testing vs Backend Testing HLD vs LLD BRS vs SRS Positive Testing vs Negative Testing Software Testing MCQ Software Testing MCQ Interview Questions Software Testing Interview next ? ? prev The difference between Positive Testing and Negative Testing The primary objective of performing the software testing is to identify the bugs in the code and enhance the quality of software or an application. To achieve this, we have two different but unique software testing approaches, such as positive testing and negative testing. Both of these testing strategies have their prime features and functionality, and both testings play a significant role to check the software or an application. To test any kind of application, we need to provide some input value and validate if the results are based on the given requirements or not. Before understanding the significant difference between positive and negative testing, we will briefly introduce positive and negative testings with some examples. What is Positive Testing? It is used to check whether our application works as expected or not. And if an error is detected at the time of positive testing, the test is considered as fail. A positive testing is a technique whenever a test engineer writes the test cases for a set of respective outputs. In positive testing, the test engineer will always check for only a good set of values. In other words, we can say that positive testing is a process where the system or an application is tested against the valid input data. And the primary purpose of performing the positive testing is to validate whether the software does what it is supposed to do. In simple terms, we can say that positive testing is implemented by providing a positive point of view. For example, Numbers like 9999999. Example of Positive Testing In the following example, we are trying to understand the working of positive testing. Suppose, we have one test scenario, where we want to test an application that includes a simple text box. To enter Phone Number according to the business needs it accepts only numerical values. Hence, in positive testing, we will only give the positive numerical values in order to test whether it is working as per the requirement or not. Note: Generally, most application developers execute the Positive scenarios where the test engineer gets less bug count around positive testing. To get in-detail information about positive testing, refers to the following link: What is Negative Testing? It is implemented to check how the application can gracefully handle invalid input or unpredicted user performance. The fundamental purpose of executing the negative testing is to ensure the application's stability against the effects of different variations of improper validation data set. Negative testing is also known as error path testing or failure. And it helps us to identify more bugs and enhance the quality of the software application under test. Once the positive testing is complete, then only we can execute the negative testing, which helps to identify more bugs and enhance the quality of the software application under test. We can say that the negative testing is executing by keeping the negative point of view in simple terms. For example, 99999abcde Example of Negative Testing? Let see one example which will help us to understand the negative testing in an effective way. Suppose we have one sample form where the Mobile Numberfield can only accept the numbers' value and does not accept the unique characters and alphabets values. However, let's entered the unique characters and alphabets values on the Mobile numberfield to test that it accepts the individual characters and alphabets values or not. We expect that the textbox field will not accept invalid values and show an error message for the incorrect entry. To get in-detail information about negative testing refers to the following link: Example for Positive and Negative testing The positive method is the same to the negative testing. But the significant difference between them is, in positive testing, we will enter the valid data instead of false data, and the expected result is the system accepting the code with no further issues. Let's see another example where we will see the Positive and negative test scenarios: Suppose we have one requirement, where the Password text box field should accept only 8-15 alphanumeric characters. Let see the below table where we discussed some of the positive and negative test scenarios. Positive Test Scenarios Negative Test Scenarios The Password text box should accept 8 characters. The Password text box should not accept less than 8 characters. The Password text box should accept 15 characters. The Password text box should not go beyond more than 15 characters. The Password text box should accept any value between 8-15 characters long. The special characters should not accept by the password text box. The Password text box should accept all numeric and alphabet values. Positive Testing VS Negative Testing Some of the significant difference between positive and negative testing is discussed in the following table: S.No. Positive Testing Negative Testing 1. Checking the application response with the help of valid input data is known as positive testing. Checking the application response by using the invalid input data set is known as negative testing. 2. Positive testing is implemented only for the expected conditions. Negative testing is implemented only for unexpected conditions. 3. Positive testing doesn't guarantee a good quality of software product. Negative testing guarantees to deliver a good quality of software product. 4. The execution of positive testing takes less time as compared to negative testing. The execution of positive testing takes more time as compared to positive testing. 5. To validate the available set of test conditions, we will consistently implement the Positive testing. To break the project and product with an unidentified set of test conditions, we will consistently implement Negative testing. 6. The primary purpose of executing Positive testing is to guarantee that the software application always meets the developer's requirements and specifications. The primary purpose of executing the negative testing is to test a web application's constancy in contradiction to inaccurate validation data sets. 7. Positive testing doesn't encompass all the possible cases. Negative testing encompasses all the possible cases. 8. It is a process where the system is validated in contradiction of the valid input data. It is a testing process which contain the validation in contrast to invalid input data. 9. Positive testing is less significant than Negative testing. Negative testing is more vital than Positive testing. 10. Positive testing can be implemented on every application. Negative testing can be implemented when the possibilities of unpredicted conditions. 11. The people having less knowledge can execute the positive testing. The testing professionals can execute the negative testing. 12. It makes sure that the software is standard. Negative testing makes sure to deliver 100 percent bug-free software. Conclusion After seeing the significant comparison between positive and negative testing, we can conclude that testing helps us to increase the software application quality and ensures the software is bug-free before the software is launched. As the name recommends, they are two opposing techniques but highly effective in getting quality software at the end of the day. The fundamental purpose of implementing the Positive and Negative Testing is to verify that the application works as per the given business needs and specifications and provides us enough assurance in the software's quality. And finally, we can say that Positive testing and Negative testing are like two sides of a coin, which implies that we cannot overlook anyone's significance in any case. If both are implemented, the output is overwhelming; if we ignored one of them, the final product would be unpleasant. Next TopicSoftware Testing MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
