https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cookie-policy/
HOW DOES GeeksforGeeks USE COOKIES? - GeeksforGeeks
HOW DOES GeeksforGeeks USE COOKIES? - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Write an Articleexpand_more Write Articles Write Interview Experience Guidelines to Write Get Technical Writing Internship C C++ Java Python Machine Learning Interview Preparationexpand_more Interview Preparation For Software Developers Must Coding Questions - Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions - Topic-wise Company-wise Practice Problems Company Preparation Competitive Programming Software Design-Patterns Company-wise Interview Experience Experienced - Interview Experiences Intership - Interview Experiences Practice @Geeksforgeeksexpand_more Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... Algorithmsexpand_more Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide & Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound All Algorithms Data Structuresexpand_more Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advance Data Structures Matrix String All Data Structures Programming Languagesexpand_more C C++ Java Python C# Go Lang SQL PHP Scala Perl Kotlin Web Technologiesexpand_more HTML CSS Bootstrap JavaScript Jquery ReactJS NodeJS AngularJS Django Framework Tutorial Libraryexpand_more Python Tutorial Django Tutorial Pandas Tutorial Kivy Tutorial Tkinter Tutorial OpenCV Tutorial Selenium Tutorial Computer Science Subjectsexpand_more Engineering Mathematics Operating Systems DBMS Computer Network Computer Organization & Architecture TOC Compiler Design Digital Elec. & Logic Design Software Engineering GATE 2021expand_more GATE CS Notes Gate Corner Previous Year GATE Papers Last Minute Notes (LMNs) Important Topic - GATE 2021 GATE 2021 Course UGC NET / ISROexpand_more UGC NET Notes - Paper II UGC NET Notes - Paper III UGC NET Solved Papers ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO Official Keys ISRO CSE Syllabus QUIZ Sectionexpand_more C Quiz C++ Quiz Java Quiz Python Quiz Data Structures Quiz Algorithms Quiz Aptitude Quiz Topic-wise MCQs Puzzles Geeksforgeeks Initiativesexpand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek Of The Month Geek On The TOP Campus Geek Of The Month Technical Scripter Event Computer Science Projects HOW DOES GeeksforGeeks USE COOKIES? Last Updated : 23 May, 2018 A cookie is a small piece of data that a website asks your browser to store on your computer or mobile device. The cookie allows the website to “remember” your actions or preferences over time. Most browsers support cookies, but users can set their browsers to decline them and can delete them whenever they like. If you use GeeksforGeeks, both GeeksforGeeks and third parties will use cookies to track and monitor some of your activities on and off GeeksforGeeks, and store and access some data about you, your browsing history, and your usage of GeeksforGeeks. This policy describes how both GeeksforGeeks and other third parties use cookies both within and without GeeksforGeeks and how you can exercise a better control over cookies. Please keep in mind that this may alter your experience with our platform, and may limit certain features (including being logged in as a user). General Browsing: We use cookies that are important for certain technical features of our website, like logging into user accounts and implementing fixes and improvements to our platform. These cookies help us: Remember users’ custom preferences and help create more useful products Allow users to opt out of certain types of modeling, tailoring, or personalization in our products Collect information on our users’ preferences in order to create more useful products Cookies can also be used for online behavioural target advertising and to show adverts relevant to something that the user searched for in the past Advertising: We use cookies to enable advertising with our third-party Partners, which in turn allows us to provide many of our services free of charge. These cookies: Customize the ad experience for our users, including tailoring job and display ads to the technologies a person has previously looked at, the communities a person has visited, and the job ads a person has already seen Allow direct communication between a 3rd party partner who hosts a promotional event with us, and users who have opted into the promotion Allow us to track when a GeeksforGeeks user sees or clicks on an ad or later visits a third-party website or purchases a product on a third-party website Collect impressions and click data for internal reporting and product optimization Analytics: We use cookies to compile usage activity in order to better cater our Products and Services offerings to you, and to third parties. We DO NOT share identifiable “raw” data with our clients or any third parties, however we do make high-level decisions based on aggregated data about your usage of our Products and Services. These cookies: Monitor site traffic and behavior flows of users Measure the effectiveness of on-site products Measure the effectiveness of off-site marketing campaigns and tactics WHAT INFORMATION IS COLLECTED ON ME VIA COOKIES? In general, we collect most data from you via form submission. However, there are cases when visiting our site and/or using our platforms in which we may receive certain information through the use of cookies. This data will generally not include personally identifying information about you. Unique identification tokens User preferences Third Party Cookies The use of cookies, the names of cookies, and other cookies related cookies technology may change over time and GeeksforGeeks will make all reasonable efforts to notify you. Please also note that companies and other organization that sponsor pages on GeeksforGeeks may use cookies or other technologies to learn more about your interest in their products and services and in some cases to tailor such products and services to you. HOW DO I RESTRICT COOKIES? Please note that GeeksforGeeks may not work properly and you may have diminished functionality if you wish to opt-out of certain cookies. If you decide that you do not want cookies to be set on your device by our third-party Partners, you can adjust the settings on your internet browser and choose from the available Cookies setting to best meet your preferences. While setting options may vary from browser to browser, you can generally choose to reject some or all cookies, or instead to receive a notification when a cookie is being placed on your device. For more information, please refer to the user help information for your browser of choice. Please keep in mind that cookies may be required for certain functionalities, and by blocking these cookies, you may limit your access to certain parts or features of our sites and platforms. Finally, while cookies are set for varying durations on your device, you can manually delete them at any time. However, deleting cookies will not prevent the site from setting further cookies on your device unless you adjust the settings discussed above. CONTACT US If you have any questions, comments, or concerns regarding this Cookies Policy, please contact GeeksforGeeks at: support@geeksforgeeks.org Privacy Policy @ GeeksforGeeks My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Difference between Half adder and full adder String Comparison in Python Python List Slicing Most Visited Articles Advantages and Disadvantages of WLAN Introduction to Java 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Differences and Applications of List, Tuple, Set and Dictionary in Python Advantages and disadvantages of Computer 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
