https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/base-conversion/
base-conversion Archives - GeeksforGeeks
base-conversion Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Tag Archives: base-conversion Modify an array by sorting after reversal of bits of each array element Medium Given an array arr[] consisting of N integers, the task is to modify the array by replacing each array element with the number obtained by… Read More array-rearrange base-conversion binary-representation Arrays Mathematical Sorting Modify array by removing characters from their Hexadecimal representations which are present in a given string Given an array arr[] of size N and a string S, the task is to modify given array by removing all characters from their hexadecimal… Read More base-conversion Arrays Mathematical Strings Queries to count numbers from a range which does not contain digit K in their decimal or octal representation Given an integer K and an array Q[][] consisting of N queries of type {L, R}, the task for each query is to print the… Read More base-conversion number-digits prefix-sum Mathematical Nth natural number after removing all numbers consisting of the digit 9 Expert Given a positive integer N, the task is to find the Nth natural number after removing all the natural numbers containing digit 9. Examples: Input:… Read More base-conversion Natural Numbers Technical Scripter 2020 Mathematical Technical Scripter Largest Left-Truncatable Prime in a given base Easy Given an integer N representing the base of a number, the task is to find the largest left-truncatable prime in the given base N. Examples:… Read More base-conversion Prime Number Arrays Mathematical Check if a number N can be expressed in base B Given a number N and any base B. The task is to check if N can be expressed in the form a1*b0 + a2*b1 +… Read More base-conversion Divide and Conquer Mathematical How to add two Hexadecimal numbers? Given two numeric Hexadecimal numbers str1 and str2, the task is to add the two hexadecimal numbers. Hexadecimal Number system, often shortened to “hex”, is… Read More base-conversion Numbers Hash Mathematical Strings Check if N contains all digits as K in base B Given three numbers N, K, and B, the task is to check if N contains only K as digits in Base B. Examples: Input: N… Read More base-conversion math number-digits school-programming Geometric Mathematical Largest N digit number in Base B Given a positive integer N and base B, the task is to find the largest N-digit numbers of Base B in decimal form. Examples: Input:… Read More base-conversion Mathematical BCD or Binary Coded Decimal Binary Coded Decimal, or BCD, is another process for converting decimal numbers into their binary equivalents. It is a form of binary encoding where each… Read More base-conversion Numbers Bit Magic Mathematical Digitally balanced numbers Given two integers N and B, the task is to check N is a Digitally balanced number in base B. Digitally balanced numbers in the… Read More base-conversion number-digits Mathematical Hexadecimal equivalents in Binary Valued Graph Given a binary valued undirected graph with V vertices and E edges, the task is to find the hexadecimal equivalents of all the connected components… Read More base-conversion binary-representation connected-components Data Structures DFS Algorithms Competitive Programming Data Structures Graph Strings C program to count zeros and ones in binary representation of a number Medium Given a number N, the task is to write C program to count the number of 0s and 1s in the binary representation of N.… Read More base-conversion binary-representation setBitCount Bit Magic C Programs School Programming Add two integers of different base and represent sum in smaller base of the two Given two integers X, Y in base B1 and B2 respectively, the task is to find the sum of integers X and Y and represent… Read More base-conversion Mathematical Maximum decimal equivalent possible among all connected components of a Binary Valued Graph Given a binary-valued Undirected Graph with V vertices and E edges, the task is to find the maximum decimal equivalent among all the connected components… Read More base-conversion binary-representation connected-components graph-connectivity Algorithms Competitive Programming Data Structures Graph Page 1 of 612345...»Last » What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in base-conversion Program for Decimal to Binary Conversion Python program to convert decimal to binary number Type Conversion in Python Program for Binary To Decimal Conversion Different ways for Integer to String Conversions In Java Most visited in base-conversion Converting Roman Numerals to Decimal lying between 1 to 3999 Binary to decimal and vice-versa in python Converting Decimal Number lying between 1 to 3999 to Roman Numerals Convert from any base to decimal and vice versa Program for Hexadecimal to Decimal 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
