https://www.javatpoint.com/gimp
Gimp Tutorial - javatpoint
Gimp Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Java Gimp UiPath Linux C Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q GIMP Tutorial GIMP Tutorial Install GIMP GIMP vs Photoshop GIMP vs Inkscape GIMP vs Krita GIMP vs Lightroom Photoshop Alternatives GIMP Menus GIMP File Menu GIMP Edit Menu GIMP Select Menu GIMP View Menu GIMP Image Menu Gimp Layers GIMP Colors Gimp Tools GIMP Filters Basic Tasks GIMP Fonts GIMP Brushes GIMP Layer Masks GIMP Deselect GIMP Draw Line GIMP Draw Circle GIMP Draw Rectangle GIMP Draw Arrow GIMP GIF GIMP Move Layer GIMP Rotate Image GIMP Clone Tool GIMP Heal Tool Save Image as JPEG Save as Png GIMP Animations GIMP Change Colors Resize Image in GIMP Text in GIMP GIMP Text Outline GIMP Crop GIMP Patterns GIMP Plugins GIMP Plugins GIMP DDS Plug-in GIMP Resynthesizer Photo Editing GIMP Photo Editing GIMP Remove Background GIMP HDR GIMP Smoke Effect GIMP Cartoon Effect GIMP Remove Watermark Logo Making GIMP Logo Making Miscellaneous GIMP Online How to use GIMP next ? GIMP Tutorial GIMP tutorial is designed for learning the Gimp (GNU Image Manipulation Program) tool. Our GIMP tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals both. This tutorial is useful for photographers and graphic designers. This GIMP tutorial included photo editing, painting, logo designing, and other advanced photography and editing tasks. Further, it includes useful tips and tricks for editing photos. Each topic in this tutorial has a maximum number of annotated images. We have started this tutorial from scratch so that you can learn it easily. What is GIMP GIMP (GNU Image Manipulation Program) is a free and open-source image editor tool. It is a cross-platform tool available for different operating systems such as GNU/Linux, macOS, Windows, etc. As it is open-source, its source code can be downloaded. It is packaged with most of the Linux distros. It is a useful tool for Graphic Designers, Photographer, and other professionals. It supports various third-party plug-in to make it a more advanced editing tool. We can enhance our creativity with the help of these plug-ins. It is a useful tool for various image manipulation tasks such as photo editing, image composition, image construction, logo designing, painting, and many more. It is capable enough of being used as a simple paint tool, an advanced photo editing tool, a mass production image renderer, or an image format converter tool. One of the other reasons for its popularity is that it is a free tool while other editing tools such as photoshop are paid. Most Linux distributions include it as a standard application. But, it can be downloaded for other platforms such as macOS and Windows as well. Gimp is licensed under the GPL (General Public License). The tools that are licensed under the GPL provides the freedom to alter the source code. Features of GIMP Some key Features of GIMP are as following: Free and Open Source It is a free and open-source tool. Cross-Platform It is a cross-platform tool available for different operating systems such as GNU/Linux, macOS, Windows, and more High-Quality Photo Manipulation It has massive supports for the tools needed for high-quality image editing. It can perform some advanced tasks such as image retouching, image restoring, image composing, etc. Original Artwork Creation It is enough capable and flexible to transform an image into truly unique creations. Graphic Design Elements The Gimp is a vital tool for creating icons, logos, graphical design elements, interactive arts for UI, and mockups. Programming Algorithms It also provides an advanced framework for scripted image manipulation with multiple programming language support like C, C++, Python, Perl, etc. Key Component in a Desktop Publishing Workflow It provides color management features to ensure the high-quality fadable color reproduction across media. Further, It provides an interactive workflow in other tools such as Scribus, Inkscape, and SwatchBooker. Apart from all the above features, it also provides the following list of features: It provides a full suite of painting tools such as brushes, airbrush, pencil, cloning, etc. It provides a tile-based memory management tool to limit the image size by available disk space. It provides a sub-pixel sampling for high-quality and anti-aliasing. It provides full alpha channel support for transparency. It provides several layers an channels. It supports a procedural database for calling internal GIMP functions from an external program. It has advanced scripting capabilities. It provides several undo/redo options. It provides several transformation tools such as rotate, scale, shear, and flip. It supports a wide range of file formats such as GIF, JPEG, PNG, TIFF, PDF, BMP, etc. It provides several selection tools such as rectangle, ellipse, circle, fuzzy, bezier, etc. It supports various plug-ins for the easy addition of new file formats and filters. GIMP History The GIMP project had been initiated in 1995 by Spencer Kimball and Peter Mattis as a semester project at the University of California. It was named as General Image Manipulation Program. Later, Kimball and Mattis met with Richard Stallman (GNU Project) while visiting the University of California. They asked to change the General word with GNU, and the Stallman approved. From here, the software had become part of the GNU software collection. Its first release had proper computer architectures and operating systems support. The first release supported all UNIX-based systems such as Linux, HP-UX, and SGI IRIX. Since the initial release, it has been extended for other operating systems such as Windows and macOS. The Windows support in GIMP 1.1 was started by Tor M. Lillqvist (Finish Programmer) in 1997 for the Windows 32-bit platform. Following the first version, it was adopted by users, and several communities of contributors were formed. Communities were started by developing plug-ins, artwork, tutorials, and techniques. GTK (Gimp Tool Kit) was developed for the development of GIMP. Later, it was replaced by its successor GTK+, which was redesigned by using object-oriented programming methods. GIMP Versions The first version of GIMP was released in January 1996 as "GIMP 0.54" with various colors and file format support. It got updated over the years and released many versions. The version list of GIMP is as follows: GIMP 0.54 GIMP 0.60 GIMP 0.99 GIMP 1.0 GIMP 1.1 GIMP 1.2 GIMP 2.0 GIMP 2.2 GIMP 2.4 GIMP 2.6 GIMP 2.8 GIMP 2.10 GIMP 3.0 GIMP 3.2 GIMP User Interface The GIMP user interface looks like a typical image editing tool. A dedicated design team designs it. It is presented in two forms single-window mode multiple window mode The default view of GIMP is multiple window mode, which has the tools and tool settings on the left and other utility dialogues on the right. The center screen displays image being manipulated. The top navigation menu is always on in-display mode. Consider the below image: Prerequisites Before learning GIMP, you should have a working knowledge of the computer and its operating system. So, Ensure how to use the basic commands and menus with primary I/O devices since it is an image manipulation tool, so you don't need to worry about the prior knowledge of any technology. Just make sure you have properly installed it on your system. Audience Our GIMP Tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals both. Problem We assure you that you will not find any discrepancies or problems in this tutorial. But in case, if you find any mistake, you can inform us by posting it in the contact form. Next TopicInstall Gimp next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
