https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-save-excel-document
How to save Excel document - javatpoint
How to save Excel document - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to save Excel document As we all know, that the Save option is available on almost every platform. The save option is used to store your writing data in a secure place such as a floppy disk, local system drive, specific folder (e.g., My Document, Desktop, and more), hard drive, USB, as well as a flash drive. Note: Some online platforms and websites will automatically save your document and changes that you made in the document. We need to save the document because if we don't save document, then the data is lost when a system crashes, reboots, or losses power consumption. In Microsoft Excel, the save option is available under the File tab at the top left corner of the document. Note: Under the File tab, you can also use Save As option to rename the already created document or make a similar copy of the already created Excel document. Methods to save Excel document A list of methods to save Excel document is as follows - Save Excel document using the keyboard shortcut keys Save Excel document using File tab on the Ribbon Save Excel document in a PDF file format Method 1: Save Excel document using keyboard shortcut keys Shortcut keys are the easiest and quickest way to save a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet in your desired location. Follow the below-mentioned steps to save Excel document using keyboard shortcut keys - Step 1: Go to the bottom of the Search box, type Microsoft Excel in the search box and then press the Enter key from the keyboard. Step 2: A Microsoft Excel document will appear on the screen. Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a new Microsoft Excel document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse document location -> Open to open an existing Microsoft Excel document. Note: In our case, we are going to open a new blank Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Type or prepare data in a document that you want to save for future use. Step 4: Press the Ctrl + S keys. A Save As dialog box will appear on the screen. Browse the location where you want to save the document. Type desired file name in the File Name text box. Click on the Save button at the bottom of the Save As dialog box as shown in the below given screenshot. Note: If you open an existing Microsoft Excel document, then press Ctrl + S keys from the keyboard. Microsoft Excel document will automatically save changes. Now, you can see that your Microsoft Excel document will save to your desired location. Method 2: Save Excel document using File tab on the Ribbon. This is the oldest method to save a Microsoft Excel document on your local drive or in a particular folder on your computer. Steps to save Excel document A step by step procedure to save a Microsoft Excel document using the File tab is discussed below - Note: The below steps are used to save Microsoft documents in Excel 2019, Excel 2016, Excel 2013, Excel 2010, Excel 2007, and Microsoft Office 365. Step 1: Double-click on the Microsoft Excel icon to open a new Microsoft Excel document. Step 2: Create or prepare a list of data that you want to save for future use. Step 3: Click on the File tab at the top left corner of the Microsoft Excel document. A list of File options will appear on the screen. Click on the Save As option as shown in the below screenshot. Note: You can also click File -> Save for an existing Microsoft Excel document. Step 4: A Save As dialog box will appear on the screen in which do the following - 1. Browse the location where you want to save the current document. Note: To pick a folder inside the drive, click the Desktop option and then select your desired location to save the Microsoft Excel document. 2. Type your desired file name in the File Name text box for a new Microsoft Excel document. (For example, we use the filename as javatpoint) 3. Click on the Save button at the bottom of the Save As dialog box to save the document. See the below-given screenshot. Now, the screenshot below shows that your current Excel document is saved with the file name javatpoint. Method 3: Save an Excel document in a PDF format Microsoft Excel also allows us to save an Excel document in a PDF file format. The advantage of saving Excel documents in a pdf format is that a PDF document is easy to share, maintain documentation, and requires less data to load the document. Steps to save Excel document in a pdf file format There are the following easiest steps to save Excel documents in a PDF file format. Step 1: Double click the Microsoft Excel icon, a Microsoft Excel document window pops up on the screen. Step 2: Go to the top left corner of the Microsoft Excel document and click on the File tab under the Clipboard section. Step 3: A list of file options will appear on the screen. Click on the Open option to open the existing document. Step 4: An Open dialog box pops up on the screen. Select the document that you want to save as a PDF. Your selected excel document will appear in the File name section. Click on the Open button at the bottom of the document. Step 5: Now, your desired document appears on the screen. Click on the File tab, a list of options will appear in which click on the Save As button. Step 6: A Save As dialog box will appear in which perform the following - Type your file name in the File name textbox. Click on the drop-down icon associate with Save as type section. A list of file formats will appear on the screen in which click on the PDF(*.pdf) option. Click on the Save button at the bottom of the Save As dialog box, as shown in the screenshot given below. Now, you can see that your desired Excel document will Save in the PDF file format. Next TopicHow to set background image in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
