https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-cryptocurrency
What is Cryptocurrency - Javatpoint
What is Cryptocurrency - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev What is Cryptocurrency? Nowadays, the global economy is moving toward the digital world, and from investments to money transfer, everything is becoming digital. Here, the newest and most promising digital payment system has come into the market, which is cryptocurrency. In this topic, we will understand what exactly cryptocurrency is, what are different types of Cryptocurrencies, its advantages, and disadvantages. Cryptocurrency definition Cryptocurrency, also known as crypto, is a type of online payment method that can be exchanged online to purchase goods and services. It is much similar to real-world currency, but it does not have any physical appearance. It is encrypted, transparent, and decentralized digital money, which is based on blockchain technology. There are approximately 5000 different types of cryptocurrencies, among which Bitcoin and Ethereum are the popular ones. Cryptocurrency is digital or virtual currency, which is transparent, decentralized, and secured by cryptography. The most important feature of cryptocurrency is that it is a decentralized currency. Decentralized means it is not issued by the central authorities, the user owns it, and neither government nor the bank controls it. It is also known as the money of the future. Bitcoin is the first decentralized cryptocurrency, which was released as open-source software in the year 2009. After the creation of bitcoin, several other cryptocurrencies have been created. Cryptocurrency has various features, such as: It has a limit to how many units can exist, such that bitcoin has 21 million limits. It performs easy verification of transfer of funds with the help of hashing algorithms that verify each transaction. It is independent of any central authority or a bank. The new units can only be added after certain conditions are met. What is Blockchain? Blockchain is the technology, which is used by bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies. It is a type of record maintaining system which multiple users run in a decentralized manner. When a bitcoin is exchanged over the network, a block of data is created and shared over the entire network. Once this block is verified, it is added with the previous blocks and forms a chain type, hence known as a blockchain. Advantages of Cryptocurrency Last several years, cryptocurrencies are being more popular among the public because of their several advantages over paper money. Some of these advantages are given below: 1. Fraud-Proof One of the important advantages of cryptocurrency is that it is fraud-proof. When a cryptocurrency is created, all the user's confirmed transactions are saved in the public ledger. The identity of coin owners is kept encrypted. Hence there is no chance for a fraudulent transaction. 2. User ownership Since the cryptocurrency is decentralized, the user owns it. No, any government or bank has any control over it. There is also not any electronic cash system. 3. Easy transaction In the traditional economy system, for doing any type of business or deal, there is always a lot of transaction fees applicable that we need to pay for each transaction. Apart from this, there are also various paper works, brokerage fees, commissions, etc., users need to pay. But when we use cryptocurrency, all these things are removed; as for any transaction, there is no middle man. Every transaction is performed between one to one within a secured network. This one-to-one transaction makes it easier and more transparent than the traditional one. 4. Confidential Transactions When we perform any transaction in a traditional transaction system with either cash or credit, each transaction is recorded in our bank history. It means each transaction data remains with banks. In cryptocurrency, every transaction with the recipients would be unique. The information is exchanged on the basis of the push concept. It means we are allowed to share only that information that we want to disclose to the recipients. 5. Instant Settlement The easy use of cryptocurrency is making it more popular among people. For starting any transaction, we just need a smart device such as a Mobile phone, internet connection, and instantly we will become our own bank to make online payments and transactions. 6. Identity theft In cryptocurrency, it is ensured by the ledger that all transactions performed between digital wallets can calculate the accurate balance. This public ledger is also known as a "transaction blockchain." Blockchain technology makes secure digital transactions through encryption and "smart contracts" that make the entity virtually unhackable and immune to fraud. How does Cryptocurrency Works? Cryptocurrencies are decentralized systems that work on blockchain technology. A cryptocurrency is a medium of exchange that is digital, encrypted, and decentralized. Unlike other currencies such as U.S. Dollar or the Euro, there is no central authority involves that manages and maintains the value of a cryptocurrency. Instead, managing and maintaining tasks are broadly distributed among cryptocurrency's users via the internet. The working phenomenon of cryptocurrency transaction is given below: One user or sender who wants to send funds to another user starts the transaction. In this, each transaction is represented as a block. And this block is forwarded over the blockchain network. This block is validated by the users of the chain, and once it is verified as a valid transaction, a block is added to the chain. Each transaction is encrypted and contains a unique set of keys, and whoever has those set of keys, he can only own the amount of cryptocurrency. Note: The above working of cryptocurrency is explained with respect to bitcoin as some cryptocurrencies may differ in functioning, as some don't use blockchain technology. What is Crypto in Cryptocurrency Crypto is used for cryptography, which is a technique of encryption and decryption for secure communication between two parties. The cryptography technology usually uses a computational algorithm such as SHA256, a public key, and a private key. The public key is shared with everyone, and a private key is like the digital signature of the user. A general bitcoin transaction occurs in the below steps: The first step is the user has the transaction details, which means to whom bitcoin needs to be shared and how much. The transaction is passed through the hashing algorithm to validate the transaction. In bitcoin, the SHA256 hashing algorithm is used. The output of hashing algorithm goes to the signature algorithm with the user's private key. This uniquely identifies the user. The output of the above step is distributed over the network for the people to verify the transaction. The transaction is verified using the sender's public key, and those who verify it are known as minors. After the verification, the bitcoin is added into the blockchain, which cannot be reversed. Types of Cryptocurrency After the creation of bitcoin, there are various types of cryptocurrencies available in the market. Below is the list of popular types of cryptocurrencies: 1. Bitcoin Bitcoin is the most recognizable type of cryptocurrency system. As per the studies, there are approximately more than 18.5 million bitcoin tokens available for circulation, with a capped limit of 21 million. 2. Bitcoin Cash Bitcoin cash was introduced in the year 2017, and it is one of the most popular types of cryptocurrencies available in the market. 3. Litecoin Litecoin is gaining popularity day by day, and it works the same as bitcoin. It was developed by Charlie Lee(former employee of Google) in the year 2011. 4. Ethereum Etherum is heard in the same context as Bitcoin, but itself, it is not a cryptocurrency. Instead, it is an online programmable platform that uses blockchain technology. It helps the developer to develop and run DAapps within the system. Ethereum can be understood as an app store. 5. Ripple Ripple is also a type of cryptocurrency, but it does not use Blockchain technology. It is not for the particular user; rather, it mainly works for large companies or corporations to move a huge amount of money across the world. 6. Stellar Stellar is an open network, which is mainly used to store and transfer money. It is designed in a way that all the financial systems across the world can work together over the same network. It allows to create, send and trade all possible digital forms of money, whether it is dollar, pesos, bitcoin, or anything. It does not charge users to use its network. 7. NEO NEO was formally called Antshares and created in China. Its main goal is towards smart contracts, which enable the users to create and execute agreements without involving the intermediary. 8. Cardano Cardano or ADA is a type of cryptocurrency, which is used for sending or receiving digital funds. It was created by Charles Hoskinson. It is the only coin that is available with the "Scientific philosophy and research-driven approach." It means it is reviewed by scientists and programmers. 9. IOTA IOTA stands for Internet of Things Application. It was launched in the year 2016. The main difference between IOTA and other blockchain technologies is that IOTA does not work with blocks and chains; rather, it works with smart devices on the internet of things. To use it, we need to verify two previous transactions on the IOTA ledger, which is known as Directed Acyclic Graph(DAG), also known as Tangle. What is Cryptocurrency Mining? In cryptocurrency, mining means the validation of a transaction. Since cryptocurrency works on a decentralized network, which doesn't have any central authority to validate the task, anyone in the network can be minor, and to do this, a successful minor gets a new cryptocurrency as the reward. Minors need to find a hash, which is a product of a cryptographic function that connects the new block with its predecessor. The minor reward is given to the miner who finds the solution to the complex hashing puzzle first. Once the minor gets the solution, he can build a block and add it to the blockchain. To set-up a mining rig, users need either a GPU or an application-specific integrated circuit. How to buy Cryptocurrencies? There are two ways to buy a cryptocurrency, either by US dollars or by another cryptocurrency. It means some cryptocurrencies, including bitcoins, can be purchased using US dollars, while others can be purchased using the other cryptocurrencies. To purchase it, the user needs an online app to contain the currency and the digital wallet. Generally, a user creates an account on an exchange and transfer real money to buy cryptocurrencies. Risks of investing in Cryptocurrency Some of the advantageous features of cryptocurrency also become risky when investing in it. The three major risks are given below: Operates without any government Authority As we have discussed above, it works in a decentralized way and hence does not contain any central authority or government role in it. This fact raises many questions, such that what type of taxes are to be paid for any gain or loss of the assets. So, this is the main risk for investing in cryptocurrency. No physical existence As cryptocurrency is a virtual currency, and hence there is no physical existence of this. It neither represents a company like stock or bond nor a tangible asset like Gold. It is not printed on papers similar to other currencies. Hence, it does not have its fundamental value but only its trading value. Volatile in Nature The last risk factor of cryptocurrency is its volatile nature. The prices of crypto vary very irregularly, and it may sometimes get reduced or increased by 100 $ in an hour. In contrast, other currencies have a limited variation. Future scope of Cryptocurrency As per the current growth rate, it can be easily seen that cryptocurrency will have a great scope in upcoming years. But there are also some conflicts that can occur in accepting cryptocurrency as part of the economy. It can be easily seen that some top cryptocurrencies will play an important role in the future, as they are gaining popularity day-by-day from past years. Bitcoin is currently being used in 96 countries, and there occur approximately 12000 transactions/hour. Next TopicFluid Mechanics MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
