https://www.javatpoint.com/half-wave-rectifier
Half wave rectifier - Javatpoint
Half wave rectifier - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Half wave rectifier A half-wave rectifier is just a simple p-n junction diode connected in series with the load resistor. The circuit of the half-wave rectifier comprises of the primary and secondary windings forming the transformer, p-n junction diode, and the load resistance RL, as shown below: The input given to the half-wave rectifier is AC (Alternating Current). The output voltage is measured through the load resistor RL. As the name implies, the half-wave rectifier produces the half cycle of the input wave. It is due to the presence of a p-n junction diode that conducts current in only one direction. It means that the output pulse produces the output only for the positive input cycle, as shown below: The applications of half-wave rectifiers include pulse generator circuits, Amplitude modulation circuits, etc. Here we will discuss the detailed working of the half-wave rectifier, applications, advantages, and disadvantages. Half-wave rectifier Operation The transformer used in the half-wave rectifier is the step-down transformer. It is used to convert AC (Alternating current) to DC (Direct Current). It has two windings, namely primary winding and secondary winding. The primary is connected to the input supply, while the secondary winding is connected to the p-n junction diode and the load resistor. The input voltage is first stepped down by the transformer and is further applied to the diode. The diode is the p-n junction diode that conducts current only when forward biased. Consider the below image that depicts the polarity of the diode when forward biased. The forward bias easily allows the current to flow through the terminals of the diode. During the positive half cycle, the positive voltage is fed to the positive end of the diode. The diode becomes forward biased and produces the output. Similarly, during the negative half cycle, the negative voltage is applied to the p-n junction diode's positive end. The diode becomes reverse biased and does not conduct. Hence, we can say that the p-n junction diode produces the output only in the positive half of the input cycle. Such a process is called half-wave rectification. Working of the half-wave rectifier The Alternating voltage across the secondary winding of the circuit changes polarity after every half cycle. During the first half cycle, the upper end of the input is positive with respect to the lower end. The diode in such case is forward biased and therefore conducts the current. If the diode's forward resistance is zero, the input voltage will be directly applied to the load resistor. In practically, the diode resistance can be minimal but not zero. The output current and voltage waveform are similar to the input AC waveform. Similarly, during the negative half, the lower end is negative for the upper end. The diode in such case becomes reverse biased and therefore does not conducts. Hence, the voltage across the load resistor remains zero. The reverse current is very small that is considered equal to zero. Thus, for every negative half cycle, no output is delivered to the load resistor. The input and output waveform for the positive half input cycle appears as: The input and output waveform for the next half (negative) input cycle appears as: The input and output waveform for the further input cycles appears as: The half-wave rectifier is named because it delivers half-cycles at the output. We can also use the filter across the load to make the output wave smooth. Analysis of half wave rectifiers Here, we will discuss various parameters of the half wave rectifier. 1. Peak Inverse Voltage It is an essential parameter in the designing of the rectifier. In reverse bias state, no current flows across the load resistor. Hence, the entire output voltage appears across the p-n junction diode. Thus, PIV (Peak Inverse Voltage) of the half wave rectifier is: Vm. 2. Average and Peak Currents in the diode Let's consider the voltage across the transformer as secondary voltage Vs. The value given to the rectifier can be represented as: The instantaneous value of the voltage is applied to the Half Wave Rectifier. Assume to forward resistance across the resistor and diode is RF and RL. The current flowing through the load resistor is: The current flowing through the diode can be represented as: 3. DC Output current The DC output current is given as: Substituting the value of Im in the above equation, we get: 4. RMS value of the current The RMS value of the current flowing through the diode can be represented as: Substituting the value of Im in the above equation, we get: 5. DC Output voltage The DC output voltage can be represented as: 6. RMS Value of the Output voltage The RMS value across the load is given as: 7. Rectification Efficiency Efficiency = DC (Direct Current) power delivered to the load / AC (Alternating Current) input power from the transformer. The maximum efficiency of a half-wave rectifier is 40.6%. 8. Ripple Factor It is the ratio of the effective value of the ac components and dc components (voltage or current). It is given as: 9. Regulation It can be represented as: Applications The rectifiers are generally used to construct DC power supplies. The rectifier can be a half-wave or full-wave rectifier, depending on the requirements. Both the rectifiers are used as a component in building DC power supplies. The full-wave rectifiers are proffered for smooth DC power supply applications. In applications where there is no requirement for a smooth or constant DC power supply, we can use the half-wave rectifier. The Half Wave Rectifier's other applications include soldering iron circuits, small battery cells, AM (Amplitude Modulation) radio circuits, firing circuits, etc. Advantages of Half wave rectifier The circuit of the half-wave rectifier is simple and cheap. It is easy to construct. Let's discuss the advantages of the half wave rectifiers. Inexpensive The half wave rectifiers are inexpensive as compared to other types of rectifiers. It is due to the less number of components present in the circuit. Simple Design The design of the circuit does not involve any complex wiring system or greater components. Easy to Construct Half wave rectifier comprises of only four basic components, called input power supply, primary and secondary windings, p-n junction diode, and the load resistor. The connection of all these components is straightforward. Hence, the circuit is easy to construct. Disadvantages The disadvantages of a half-wave rectifier are as follows: High ripple factor Half-wave rectifier has a high ripple factor, due to which it is not preferred as the input supply of the audio circuits. It results in noises in the input signal. It also affects the audio quality of the audio signal. Low power output and efficiency The power output and the efficiency of the half-wave rectifier are low. It is because the rectifier delivers power only during the positive half of the alternating input voltage. Hysteresis loss The DC saturation of the transformer core can result in hysteresis loss and the magnetization current. It can also lead to generation of harmonics. Low transformer utilization factor It is defined as the ratio of DC power output to the effective AC rating of the transformer. Hence, a half-wave rectifier is not recommended for the general power supply due to all the above disadvantages. It is used for some applications, such as soldering iron circuits, low power batteries, pulse generator circuits, etc. Next TopicWhat is Format Factory ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
