https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-angles
Types of Angles - Javatpoint
Types of Angles - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Angles There are many types of shapes used for study purposes in geometry, and an angle is one of them. There are several types of angles in geometry that help structure more complex geometrical shapes and figures. These structures eventually help to study geometrical fundamentals. Angles also play a crucial role in our real-life activities, such as architects and engineers, use different angles while designing buildings, bridges, roads, machinery, etc. There are many more applications of angles in our daily life. Therefore, it is essential to know different angles and take advantage of them in our day-to-day activities. Before we discuss the various angle types, let us first understand the fundamentals and characteristics of angles: What is an Angle? When two or more rays or lines intersect at a point, an angle (or angles) is formed at their intersection. It is usually an amount of turn at a common point. The two rays can follow various fashions to intersect each other and form different angles. Angles are measured in degrees (°). Note: The name 'Angle' originated from the Latin word 'Angulus'. Parts of an Angle There are three essential parts required to form an angle, such as: Vertex: The corner point of an angle is known as the vertex. At the vertex, the arms of an angle meet. Arms: The two straight lines or sides forming a vertex are called arms. The arms can also be divided into the initial side (or vertical side) and terminal side. Angle: An angle refers to the rotation of turn between both arms. In other words, if the arms are rotated at the meeting point, then the measure of rotation is known as an angle. Types of Angles There are various types of angles based on different measurements. However, all such angles are typically categorized based on the following two measurements: Based on Magnitude Based on Rotation Let us discuss each type in detail: Classification of Angles based on Magnitude Based on the degree measurement and magnitude, angles are usually divided into the following types: Zero Angle Acute Angle Right Angle Obtuse Angle Straight Angle Reflex Angle Complete Angle What is a Zero Angle? A zero angle refers to an angle formed when both the angle's arms are in the same direction and the same position. Typically, no angle is formed in this position. Therefore, it is known as a zero angle and measured by zero degrees (0°). The following diagram represents that both arms, PR, and PQ, are in the same position. The angle formed here is a zero angle, i.e.: ? RPQ = 0° (zero angle) What is an Acute Angle? An acute angle is defined as an angle that lies between 0° to 90°. More specifically, each angle that is more than 0° and less than 90° is an example of an acute angle. For examples, 15°, 30°, 45°, 60°, etc. The following diagrams illustrate acute angles, where an angle in each diagram is greater than 0° but less than 90°. What is a Right Angle? The right angle refers to an angle that is equal to 90 degrees. The angle can neither less than or more than 90 degrees. A right angle is typically formed when the two arms (or lines) of the angle intersect perpendicularly. The angle formed here is usually represented by creating a square-shaped box between the arms of an angle near the vertex. The following diagrams are some examples of the right angles, where an angle in each diagram is precisely equal to 90°. What is an Obtuse Angle? An obtuse angle is just the opposite of an acute angle. An obtuse angle is usually defined as an angle that lies between 90° to 180°. In other words, every angle that is greater than 90° and less than 180° is an example of an obtuse angle. For examples, 100°, 120°, 145°, 160°, etc. The following diagrams are some examples of the obtuse angles, where an angle in each diagram is greater than 90° but less than 180°. What is a Straight Angle? A straight angle is a mixture of an acute angle and an obtuse angle in a line. In simple terms, when two arms of an angle are in the opposite direction and making a straight line, the angle formed between arms is called a straight angle. The name straight angle is used because of a straight line. The straight angle is exactly equal to 180 degrees. It is essential to that that this can neither be less than or more than 180 degrees. The following diagram represents that both arms, PR, and PQ, are in the opposite direction. The angle formed here is the straight angle, i.e.: ? RPQ = 180° (straight angle) What is a Reflex Angle? A reflex angle is an angle formed between a straight angle (180 degrees) and a whole turn of the terminal arm (side). In simple terms, a reflex angle refers to an angle that lies between 180° to 360°. In other words, every angle that is greater than 180° and less than 360° is an example of a reflex angle. For examples, 200°, 220°, 245°, 260°, 320°, etc. The following diagrams are some examples of the reflex angles, where an angle in each diagram is greater than 180° but less than 360°. What is a Complete Angle? The complete angle is an angle that is equal to 360°. The angle can neither less than or more than 360 degrees. The complete angle is typically formed when one of the two arms turns completely, taking a complete rotation from a base position to form an angle. In other words, an angle of one revolution or one whole turn is equal to 360 degrees. It is also known as full rotation angle and full angle. The following diagram represents an angle's arm making a whole turn; thus, the name is the complete angle. The angle formed here is the complete angle, i.e.: ? a = 360° (complete angle) Classification of Angles based on Rotation Based on the direction-measurement or the direction of rotation, angles are mainly divided as below: Positive Angles Negative Angles What are Positive Angles? Positive angles are defined as angles measured in a counterclockwise direction (direction opposite to the clockwise) from the base position (origin). Most of the time, positive angles are used in geometry to represent angles for study purposes. These angles are drawn in the (+x, +y) plane from the origin. The following are some examples of the positive angles where an angle goes counterclockwise from the base position: What are Negative Angles? Negative angles are just opposite to the positive angles. This means that the angles measured in a clockwise direction from the base are the negative angles. These angles are drawn in the (+x, -y) plane from the base position. The following are some examples of the negative angles where an angle goes clockwise from the base position: Other Types of Angles Apart from the angles mentioned above, there are some other types of angles. Such angles are formed by joining the two angles, making a whole new form of an angle. Because these angles appear in pairs, they are also termed as the 'Pair Angles'. The following are the types of all such angles, which are formed by pair of angles: Adjacent angles Linear Pair Complementary angles Supplementary angles Adjacent angles When two angles are connected in such a way that they have a common vertex and one common arm, they are termed adjacent angles. Moreover, the non-common arm of both connected angles lies opposite sides of the common arm. The following diagrams are some examples of the adjacent angles, where there is a common vertex, one common arm, and a non-common arm lying on either side of the common arm. Complementary angles When measuring the sum of two angles adds up to 90°, they are termed complementary angles. It is not compulsory to be only the adjacent angles to be called complementary angles. As long as two angles add up to 90 degrees, they are complementary angles. The following diagrams are examples of the complementary angles where each diagram's two angles add up to measure 90°. It can be seen here that the diagram 'a' and the diagram 'b' are adjacent angles, but their angles add up to 90 degrees, and so they are also called the complementary angles. Besides, the diagrams 'c' and 'd' are not adjacent; however, their angles also add up to 90 degrees, and so they are called the complementary angles. Supplementary angles Supplementary angles are similar to complementary angles. However, there is one big difference. The two angles always add up to measure 180 degrees in supplementary angles, instead of 90 degrees like the complementary angles. The following diagrams illustrate the supplementary angles where the two angles in each diagram add up to measure 180°. Supplementary angles are further sub-divided into the following types: Vertical Angles Vertical angles refer to all such angles formed using a common vertex and the same sides (arms). Vertical angles are measured exactly equal to each other. They are sometimes termed vertically opposite angles. The following diagram represents vertical angles: Here, angles 1 and 2 are the vertical angles. Similarly, angles 3 and 4 are also vertical angles. Interior and Exterior Angles Consider a diagram where two parallel lines are crossed by a third line (called Transversal). It will look like the diagram given below: Here, it is clear that there are a total of 8 angles in this diagram. The angles 1 & 3, 2 & 4, 6 & 8, 5 & 7 are vertical angles as they have common vertex and same arms. Besides, the angles that are formed in the internal parts are called interior angles. In the above diagram, angles denoted by 3, 4, 5, 6 are the interior angles. In the same way, the angles that are formed in the external parts are called the exterior angles. Here, angles 1, 2, 7, 8 are examples of exterior angles. Let us now understand a few more angles considering the same diagram: Alternate Interior Angles Alternate interior angles refer to the pair of interior angles formed opposite the third line (Transversal). The simplest method to find alternate interior angles is to consider 'Z' on the interior sides. In the above diagram, angles 3 & 5 and angles 4 & 6 are examples of alternate interior angles. These angles remain exactly equal to each other (i.e., ? 3 = ? 5 and ? 4 = ? 6). Alternate Exterior Angles Alternate exterior angles follow the same rules as interior angles but on the external parts. In simple terms, the alternate exterior angles refer to the pair of exterior angles formed opposite the third line (Transversal). In the above diagram, angles 1 & 7 and angles 2 & 8 are examples of alternate exterior angles. Like alternate interior angles, alternate exterior angles are also equal (such as ? 1 = ? 7 and ? 2 = ? 8). Corresponding Angles Corresponding angles refer to the pair of all such angles which are present in a similar position. Corresponding angles are also equal. In the above diagram, angles 1 & 5, angles 2 & 6, angles 4 & 8, angles 3 & 7 are the corresponding angles. Also, they are equal, such as ? 1 = ? 5, ? 2 = ? 6, etc. Linear Pair When non-common arms of an adjacent angle are exactly opposite, they form a linear pair angle. It is essential to note that both non-common arms together make a straight line. The following diagrams illustrate the linear pair angles. Here, in each diagram, the non-common arms form a straight line. Next TopicTypes of Cell ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
