https://www.javatpoint.com/life-processes-mcq
Life Processes MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Life Processes MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Life Processes MCQ 1) Which of the following are examples of autotrophic organisms? Fungi and virus Virus and bacteria Green plants and some bacteria None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Green plants and some bacteria Explanation: The organisms which can use materials from inorganic sources to produce their own food are known as Autotrophs. Generally, the autotrophs are certain kinds of bacteria, algae as well as plants?for example, Cyanobacteria, algae, plants, etc. 2) Which of the following is required in the autotrophic mode of nutrition? Sunlight Chlorophyll Water and carbon dioxide All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: The term Autotroph means "self-feeder". So, autotrophs refer to those organisms which can produce their own food using light, water, carbon dioxide, and other chemicals. They are producers in a food chain, e.g., plants on land and algae in the water. 3) Which of the following is the green pigment used in photosynthesis? Chlorophyll Hemoglobin Phytochrome None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Chlorophyll Explanation: In green plants, chlorophyll pigment, which is present in the plant cell that helps to synthesis their own food by absorbing energy from the sunlight. 4) Chlorophyll is mainly located in which of the following part of the plant? Stem Root Green leaf bark Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Green leaf Explanation: Chlorophyll is mainly present in the leaves of a plant. 5) Which of the following is the largest gland of the human body? Gastric glands Pancreas Liver Salivary Glands Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Liver Explanation: The liver is the largest gland in the human body. It plays an important role in digestion. The liver is one of the largest organs in the body which metabolizes, detoxifies, and filters harmful drugs and substances in our body. It also stores vitamins, minerals and synthesizes proteins, enzymes and bile. 6) Which of the following mode of nutrition is found in fungi? Autotrophic Nutrition Saprotrophic Nutrition Holozoic Nutrition None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Saprotrophic Nutrition Explanation: Saprotrophic nutrition occurs in saprotrophs and is associated with fungi and soil bacteria. 7) The instrument used to measure the blood pressure is - Sphygmomanometer Barometer Photometer Manometer Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Sphygmomanometer Explanation: A sphygmomanometer is used to measure blood pressure in humans. The blood pressure reading obtained by using a sphygmomanometer is composed of two numbers that indicate systolic and diastolic pressures. E.g., 120/80 mm Hg. 8) The normal range of blood pressure in a human being is - 120/80 mm Hg 120/90 mm Hg 160/80 mm Hg 130/80 mm Hg Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 120/80 mm Hg Explanation: The normal range of blood pressure is categorized within a number less than 120 to 80 mm Hg. If the blood pressure results fit into this category, we have to stick with heart-healthy habits like a balanced diet and exercise. 9) Which of the following process converts the light energy into chemical energy? Respiration Transpiration Photosynthesis None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Photosynthesis Explanation: Photosynthesis is a biological process through which plants manufacture their food with light from the sun and inorganic sources. Green plants convert light energy into chemical energy by photosynthesis, or they are able to fix carbon from the carbon dioxide into organic compounds. 10) What is the full form of ATP? Adenosine diphosphate Adenosine phosphate Adenosine triphosphate None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Adenosine triphosphate Explanation: ATP stands for Adenosine Triphosphate. It a high-energy molecule found in the cells of the human body, animals, plants, etc. It is capable of storing and supplying the energy needed by cells. 11) Which of the following is the primary function of the hemoglobin? To make blood calories. To kill harmful bacteria. Transport of O2 None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Transport of O2 Explanation: Haemoglobin is present in the red blood cells. It transports oxygen to the tissues of the human body. Hemoglobin carries oxygen throughout the body. The iron in hemoglobin gives RBC/blood its red color. 12) Respiration in plants takes place in - Only in night Only in day Only in evening In day and night both Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) In day and night both Explanation: The term Respiration is a biochemical process that is used to release energy from the organic compounds that are then used to carry out various physical activities. Respiration in plants takes place all-time, day and night. 13) What happens in the human body during respiration? Formation of new cells Formation of glucose Oxidization of glucose Formation of protein Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Oxidization of glucose Explanation: Respiration is a continuous process that occurs in the cells of all living organisms to produce energy. In this process, energy is released by breaking down glucose in the cells of the body. 14) The left atrium receives the pure blood from the - Superior venacava Pulmonary artery Pulmonary veins None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Pulmonary veins Explanation: Pulmonary veins transfer the oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. From the lungs, the oxygenated blood enters the left atrium (left upper chamber) through the pulmonary vein and then enters the left ventricle (left lower chamber). From here, the oxygenated blood is pumped throughout the body via the aorta or arteries. 15) Which of the following procedure is used to clean the blood of a person by separating urea from it? Filtration Osmosis Dialysis None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Dialysis Explanation: Dialysis is a procedure that is used to clean the person's blood by separating the urea from it. 16) Which of the following tube connects the kidneys to the urinary bladder? Ureter Urethra Tubule Nephron Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Ureter Explanation: Ureter are the narrow tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. The ureter is the tubes that connect the kidney and urinary bladder. 17) Which of the following body organ filters the dirty blood? Lungs Heart Kidneys None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Kidneys Explanation: Kidneys filter the toxins and waste out of the blood. Kidneys are the bean-shaped organs that filter the blood and remove the waste. 18) In which part of the cell, glycolysis process occurs? Nucleus Mitochondria Chloroplast Cytoplasm Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Cytoplasm Explanation: Glycolysis takes place in the cytoplasm. The cytoplasm is a gel-like material or fluid present inside the cell and is surrounded by the cell membrane. It mostly comprises water, salts, and proteins. The organelles of the cell remain suspended in the cytoplasm. 19) The process through which the roots of plants absorb water from the soil is - Transpiration Osmosis Diffusion None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Osmosis Explanation: The roots of plants absorb the water from the soil through osmosis. 20) A network of extremely narrow tubes through which the arteries and veins are connected is known as - Vena cava Capillaries Valves None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Capillaries Explanation: None 21) In amoeba, digestion of food occurs in - Cytoplasm Nucleus Food vacuole None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Food vacuole Explanation: In amoeba, the food is digested in the food vacuole with the help of enzymes. 22) Which of the following is the function of the large intestine? Assimilation of food Digestion of fats Digestion of carbohydrates Absorption of water Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Absorption of water Explanation: The functions of the large intestine include absorbing water and electrolytes, producing and absorbing vitamins, etc. 23) Which of the following is the functional unit of the lung? Bronchus Alveoli Bronchiole Trachea Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Alveoli Explanation: Alveoli are the functional units of the lungs that form the site of gaseous exchange. 24) In a minute, how many times human heartbeats? 108 120 180 72 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 72 Explanation: A normal resting heart rate for an adult human is 60-100 beats per minute. When the rate of beats is higher than 100bpm at rest, it is called Tachycardia, and the rate of heartbeat lower than 60bpm at rest is called Bradycardia. During sleep, the slower speed of heartbeat around 40-50bpm is considered normal. 25) Which of the following is the strongest chamber of the human heart? Left ventricle Left atrium Right ventricle Right atrium Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Left Ventricle Explanation: The human heart has four chambers: two atria (singular: atrium) in the upper half and two ventricles in the lower half. Although the left and right ventricles are the stronger chambers, the left ventricle is the strongest chamber of the heart. The left ventricle pumps oxygen-rich blood to the entire body. 26) What happens when the pH in the blood reduces? Blood supply to the brain reduces Affinity of hemoglobin with oxygen decreases Rate of heartbeat reduces None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Affinity of hemoglobin with oxygen decreases Explanation: None 27) Which of the pair of an organ is meant for respiration in humans? Kidney Lung Hand None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Lung Explanation: Lungs are the important organs that help human beings in respiration. The term Respiration means a biochemical process that is used to release energy from the organic compounds that are then used to carry out various physical activities. 28) Is it true that Herbivores have a longer small intestine than a carnivore? False True Can't say May be Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) True Explanation: In herbivores, the small intestine is longer than in carnivores. Herbivores eat grass that contains cellulose which takes a long time to digest. So herbivores need the longer small intestine to digest cellulose. 29) Which of the following enzyme degrades the oils and fats into simpler fatty acids? Trypsin Cellulase Lipase Amylase Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Lipase Explanation: Amylase and Lipase are digestive enzymes. Lipase enzyme helps the body to digest fats. It is made by the pancreas and released into the digestive tract on eating. 30) Which of the following is the role of bile juice? Emulsification of fat Digestion of starch Digestion of fat None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Emulsification of fat Explanation: Bile juice helps in the emulsification of fats, and it also activates the lipase enzyme. Bile salts in bile are required for the emulsification of fats for the purpose of digestion. 31) Which of the following is the respiratory pigment in the human being? Enzymes Hemoglobin Insulin None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Haemoglobin Explanation: Haemoglobin is present in the human blood and red in color. It is the respiratory pigment in human beings. It is vital for human survival as it carries the dissolved oxygen. 32) In which of the following form the plants absorb the nitrogen from the atmosphere? Nitrates and nitrites Amino acids Proteins None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Nitrates and nitrites Explanation: None 33) Which of the following respiration is much efficient? Anaerobic respiration Aerobic respiration Both (a) and (b) Neither (a) nor (b) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Aerobic respiration Explanation: Aerobic respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen (requires oxygen). A large amount of energy is released in aerobic respiration. It generates 36 ATP molecules per glucose molecule. It occurs in multicellular organisms like plants, animals, humans, etc. 34) The approximate length of an alimentary canal in human beings is - 1m 6m - 9m 3m - 4m None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 6m - 9m Explanation: The alimentary canal is a continuous passage that starts from the mouth and ends at the anus. It is a significant part of the digestive system as it carries the food through different digestive system parts. It is approximately 9m long from the oesophagus to the anus. So, the correct answer is 6m - 9m. 35) How many milk teeth are present in humans? 32 38 20 24 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 20 Explanation: Teeth are one of the essential parts of the human body. They participate in many activities of the human body. Teeth start to appear as soon as children start to wean. Children usually have 20 teeth, called primary, temporary, or milk teeth. 36) After digestion, proteins are converted into - Starch Globules Carbohydrates Amino acids Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Amino acids Explanation: Proteins are converted into amino acids after digestion. 37) Which of the following is secreted by the liver? Gastric juice Saliva Pancreatic juice Bile juice Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Bile juice Explanation: Bile is a digestive juice that is secreted by the liver. It is stored in the gallbladder. 38) The impure blood from the right ventricle goes into - liver lungs heart None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) lungs Explanation: The deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium (right upper chamber) through the superior vena cava (vein), then passed to the right ventricle (right lower chamber), and then pumped to the lungs through the pulmonary artery. 39) Which of the following vitamin is water-soluble? Vitamin C Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin K Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Vitamin C Explanation: Vitamin C and all types of vitamin B are water-soluble. People need to regularly consume water-soluble vitamins because the body removes them more quickly, and it cannot store them easily. 40) Which part of the alimentary canal receives the bile from the liver? Small intestine Large intestine Stomach None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Small intestine Explanation: The small intestine receives the bile from the liver. 41) Which of the following statement is correct about heterotrophs? Heterotrophs synthesize their own food. Heterotrophs do not synthesize their own food. Heterotrophs utilize solar energy. All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Heterotrophs do not synthesize their own food Explanation: Heterotrophs are those organisms that are unable to prepare their own food, and for their food, they depend on green plants or producers and other animals. This mode of nutrition is called the heterotrophic mode of nutrition. 42) During respiration in humans, gaseous exchange takes place in - Alveoli of lungs Throat and larynx Alveoli and throat None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Alveoli of lungs Explanation: Alveoli are the functional units of the lungs that form the site of gaseous exchange. 43) Which of the following plant tissue is used to transport minerals and water from the roots to the leaf? Phloem Parenchyma Xylem Collenchyma Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Xylem Explanation: None 44) Which of the following is the correct sequence of body parts in the human alimentary canal? Mouth --> oesophagus --> large intestine --> stomach --> small intestine Mouth --> oesophagus --> small intestine --> stomach --> large intestine Mouth --> oesophagus --> stomach --> large intestine --> small intestine Mouth --> oesophagus --> stomach --> small intestine --> large intestine Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Mouth --> oesophagus --> stomach --> small intestine --> large intestine Explanation: None 45) Which of the following is the correct path of urine in human body? kidney --> ureter --> urinary bladder --> urethra kidney --> urinary bladder --> ureter --> urethra kidney --> ureter --> urethra --> urinary bladder Urinary bladder --> kidney --> ureter --> urethra Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) kidney --> ureter --> urinary bladder --> urethra Explanation: None 46) The correct sequence of air passage during inhalation is - Larynx --> Trachea --> Pharynx --> Lungs --> Nostrils Nostrils --> Pharynx --> Larynx --> Trachea --> Alveoli Nostrils --> Trachea --> Pharynx --> Lungs --> Larynx Trachea --> Lungs --> Pharynx --> Lungs --> Alveoli Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Nostrils --> Pharynx --> Larynx --> Trachea --> Alveoli Explanation: None 47) Which of the following is correct? Lymph = Plasma + RBC + WBC Plasma = Blood - Lymphocytes Blood = Plasma + RBC + WBC Serum = Blood + Fibrinogen Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Blood = Plasma + RBC + WBC Explanation: None 48) Which of the following are the filtration units of kidneys? Ureter Neurons Nephrons Urethra Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Nephrons Explanation: None 49) Which of the following is the correct sequence of anaerobic respiration? Glucose --> pyruvate --> carbon-dioxide + ethanol + energy Glucose --> pyruvate --> lactic acid Glucose --> pyruvate --> ADP --> lactic acid Pyruvate --> Glucose --> ethanol + energy Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Glucose --> pyruvate --> carbon-dioxide + ethanol + energy Explanation: None 50) Which of the following blood corpuscles destroy bacteria? B.C. B.C. Blood platelets None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) W.B.C. Explanation: None Next TopicProbability MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
