https://www.javatpoint.com/java-does-not-open
Java Does Not Open - Javatpoint
Java Does Not Open - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev Java Does Not Open Java is not opening up is an error or troubleshooting that may arise due to certain reasons. But we can keep some points in mind so that next time on installing Java and opening it, we may not get such issues. In this section, we will discuss the points that should be kept in mind while downloading Java JDK or JRE: Conflicts with the Java Version Conflicts may occur when opening the installed Java on your system. If Java is installed successfully on your machine but not opening, then check that within the Windows Control Panel, there exists the Java control panel (JDK) within Program and Features. If it is found that the Java Control Panel does not exist, it relates to a conflict with the legacy Java code or with JavaFX. Open Windows Control Panel > Program and Features And if you find JDK (as we have in the above image), remove the instances of Java (if exist any). Using Microsoft Uninstaller (by right click on JDK), remove the Java fragments (if any exists) and re-install Java once again on the system. Prevention Points Make use of the Offline Java Installer. It is often seen that the web installer that is used for installing Java online sometimes contains bugs (a little bit). Thus, making use of the offline installer for Java is suitable and appropriate. The official link to download Java offline installer is: https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp, from where you can download the appropriate version. So, the user can download the offline installer for Windows. Also, one should know that the offline installer is available for Windows OS only. Need to disable the antivirus scanning It has been reported by various users that they face issues because of the antivirus software been installed on the system. The antivirus software blocks some software from being downloaded and, therefore, when downloading Java. Download the offline installer instead and update the antivirus software. Finally, perform the full scan of the system. Then disable the antivirus software after ensuring no threat is found in the system. After disabling the antivirus, again begin the installation of Java and then open it. In Windows 10, in-built Windows security and Antivirus software is provided for its users, so we just need to turn off the security. To do so: 1) Open Windows Security by directly searching on the search tab, and the window will open as shown in the below snapshot: 2) Click on Virus & threat protection, and the page will open. Click on 'Manage settings' as you can see below: 3) nder Real-time protection, turn off the button, and Windows Security will ask for permission. Grant the permission, and the antivirus gets disabled. Now, download and install Java on your system again. Try another version There may be cases that if you are installing Java 64-bit but it's not opening, then try the 32-bit version for Java installation. It is because the 32-bit version may have fewer issues as compared with the 62-bit version of Java. So download the appropriate version. Disable User Account Control In some cases, the User Account Control may cause a problem when downloading Java. Just disable the User Account Control and keep it disabled until you download the Java on your system. Disable the user account control by moving to the appropriate settings to stop its functioning for a temporary time. To do so: 1) On the search tab, type User account control and hit Enter. Grant the permission, and the User Account Control Settings window will open, as you can see in the below snapshot: 2) As we need to disable the UAC, so we need to select the "Never notify me" option in the UAC settings. To select it, move the rectangular box downwards and bring it to the last, and you will get the option and hit OK, as you can see in the below snapshot: Now begin to download Java again on the system. Try with administrative privileges. Every system has administrative privileges which can be used for completing multiple tasks. Usually, in Windows 8 or 7, the user may face problems while installing Java on the system. Thus, we can try for the Administrative privileges for downloading and opening the Java development kit on the system. In order to use the Administrative privileges, one needs to download the offline installer on the system and store it in an empty folder and within a hard disk. Right-click on the installer and use the Run As Administrator command. However, the method of using the Run as Administrator command may vary as per the Windows version. Set security for the Internet Explorer There might be cases that we have set very tight and high security for our internet browser that we are using, and if it is so that a custom security level is enabled for the internet browser, chances can be there that Java downloading and installation may get blocked. We can set the internet explorer to default security, and that is present by default in each system. To do so: 1) On the Internet Options dialog box, open Settings by clicking on the three vertical dots, and the Settings page will open: 2) Within Privacy, search, and services, scroll down and stop at the Security section as you can see below: 3) If Block potentially unwanted apps is On, make it off and now download Java on your system. So all these are the possible reasons that can be seen to have the tips to follow while opening Java. Next TopicNo Java Virtual Machine was Found ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
