https://www.javatpoint.com/synchronous-motor
Synchronous Motor - Javatpoint
Synchronous Motor - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Synchronous Motor A synchronous motor is a kind of AC motor. An AC motor refers to a motor that takes AC supply as an input and converts it to rotational motion (Conversion from electrical energy to mechanical energy). The primary difference between AC and DC motor, the speed of a DC motor is controlled by its voltage, whereas the speed of an AC motor is a function of the supply frequency. There are two types of AC motors. Synchronous motors Induction motors (Asynchronous motor) Synchronous motors A synchronous motor refers to an AC motor that runs at synchronous speed. Synchronous motor is mainly consisting of two parts one is Rotor and other is Stator. The stator is an unmovable part, and the rotor is a movable part of the synchronous motor. The synchronous motor uses a stator just like an induction motor to generate a rotating magnetic field (RMF). The rotor of a synchronous motor is made up of permanent magnet coils excited by a dc supply. When ac supply is given to the stator, a rotating magnetic field (RMF) is produced. The rotor has poles having different polarities. When this rotor magnetic field interacts with the stator RMF, due to different polarities, stator RMF, and rotor magnetic field locks, since RMF is moving at synchronous speed and the rotor starts to rotate at synchronous speed. So, they are called synchronous motors or constant speed motors. Working Principle of Synchronous Motor A synchronous motor is based on the principle of magnetic interlocking. The starting of a synchronous motor is the same as an induction motor initially excited by 3 phase AC supply given to the stator. If the machine has gone to its maximum speed that is 90% of its speed, a DC Source is given to the rotor. A 3-phase source is attached to the armature winding, and the armature develops a rotating magnetic field that rotates with a synchronous speed of 120f/P. Once we excite the permanent poles of the field winding created by the DC source that tries to attract the unlike pole of the rotating magnetic poles. If the magnetic poles are attracted and interlocked the rotor continues to rotate with synchronous speed. Where, f = frequency and p = no of poles Construction of Synchronous motor Synchronous motor consists of two Primary part; Stator and Rotor Stator: A stator is a stationary part (Unmovable) of a synchronous machine. The stator comprises a cast iron core which is known as a yoke provide strength to the machine. In a synchronous motor, the armature winding is placed over the stator, which is known as stator winding. The stator core is made up of steel lamination sheets which helps to reduce the eddy current losses. The ventilating ducts are given in the machine frame that resists the high temperature. The winding of the starter is 3 phase winding which is excited by the 3 phase AC supply. Rotor: A rotor is a rotating part (Movable) of a synchronous machine. Rotor incorporates a field winding which is supplied with DC through slip rings. The rotor is divided into two types known as a salient pole and non -salient pole. Most of the synchronous motor uses salient pole type construction. Salient pole Rotor: The salient pole rotor has a large diameter and short axial length. The air gap in the salient pole rotor is non-uniform, and the poles are projecting in outward direction to the rotor surface. The poles are laminated by silicon steel and carry the field winding, and the pole faces are generally provided with slots (Provide support) for squirrel-cage winding. The damper bars are short-circuited at both ends by the copper rings. The working of damper winding primarily provides the starting toque and restricts hunting (Unwanted noise and Vibration of the Machine) in a synchronous motor. Non- salient pole Rotor: The construction of a non-salient pole rotor is cylindrical, which contains parallel slots to place rotor windings. The slots are connected in series to the slip rings, which are excited by the DC source supply. The non-salient pole is made up of solid steel material. It has a very small diameter and a very long coaxial length with a uniform air gap. Difference between Synchronous motor and Induction Motor (Asynchronous Motor) S.no Differentiating Property Synchronous Motor Induction motor 1. Definition A synchronous motor refers to an AC motor that runs at synchronous speed. It is also known as an asynchronous motor. It refers to an AC motor in which the rotor rotates less than the synchronous speed. 2. Excitation It is a doubly excited machine. It is a single excited machine. 3. Starting It runs at synchronous speed, and the speed is not depending on load. It has varying speeds. The speed of the induction motor is inversely proportional to the speed; if the load is increased, the speed of the induction motor decreases. 4. Operation It can be operated with a leading and lagging power factor by just changing its excitation. It operates only at a lagging power factor. 5. Power supply Its armature winging is excited from an AC supply, and its field winding is excited from a DC supply. Its stator winding is excited by an AC source. 6. Starting It is not self-starting. It is a self-starting motor. 7. Cost It is more costly compared to an induction motor having the same voltage and output. It is cost-efficient in comparison to the synchronous motor having the same voltage and output. Advantages of Synchronous Motor The synchronous motor runs at a constant speed, which means its speed is not depending on load. For example, it is used in watches. The operating frequency of the synchronous motor is high. An Overexcited synchronous motor can develop reactive power; therefore, it caters to high loads and stabilizes the system. A synchronous motor is primarily used for driving high loads, which requires high power at low speed. For example, mills. Disadvantages of Synchronous Motor The synchronous motor needs a separate DC source for rotor excitations, while the other motor doesn't need any separate excitation. It is expensive. It requires brushes and slips rings for rotor excitation, so due to these, losses occur. Application of Synchronous motor In this digital era, a synchronous motor has broad application in day-to-day life. The most common application of synchronous motor is the things that require a constant speed because the power frequency is controlled precisely for the short and long term-for example, Digital and Analog clocks, tape recorders, phonograph turntables, etc. Next TopicWhat is Cryptocurrency ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
