https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-add-a-text-box-in-excel
How to add a text box in Excel - javatpoint
How to add a text box in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to add a text box in Excel A Text box is also called as a text field. It is a rectangular container for the text that is used on the pages (such as web browsers, portals, word processors, log-in or registration pages, Gmail, and many more) to enter information (text). Types of the text box There are mainly the following two types of text boxes available with different formatting - 1. One line text box One line text box is a simple/small box that is used to enter the single line information such as a person's name, number, email address, or other short information. 2. Multiple line text box Multiple line text box is used to enter the large information (multiple line information) such as education details, about yourself, working experience, and many more. Advantages of the text box text box helps us to store typed text in the linked cell. It helps you to create a large data entry spot without changing the column widths. Add text box in Excel Microsoft Excel provides simple and easy ways to add text boxes in the document to increase the functionality of the worksheet. In Excel, you can create a textbox according to your needs. There are the following easiest methods to add text box in Microsoft Excel document - Note: The below methods are used to add text boxes in Microsoft Excel 2007, Excel 2010, Excel 2013, Excel 2016, Excel 2019, as well as Microsoft Office 365. Method 1: Add a text box Manually using the Developers tab The developer's tab is one of the easiest and quickest methods to add the text box in a Microsoft Excel document. Steps to add text box in Excel A list of steps to add text box in Microsoft Excel document is given below - Step 1: In the Desktop, double click on the Microsoft Excel icon to open the Excel document. Step 2: Go to the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a new Microsoft Excel document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse your file location -> Open button to open an existing Microsoft Excel document. (We are going to open a new Microsoft Excel document.) Step 3: Click the Developer tab on the ribbon. If the Developer tab does not appear on the ribbon, then first enable the developer tab to the ribbon. Note: To enable Developer tab go to the File -> Options -> Customize Ribbon -> Main tabs -> Tick Developer tab checkbox -> OK. Step 4: Click on the Insert drop-down icon under the Controls section. A list of options will appear. Under the ActiveX Controls, click on the TextBox tool (ActiveX Control), as shown in the screenshot given below. Step 5: Place the cursor on the document location where you want to add the text box. Drag the text box in your spreadsheet/ worksheet based on your need. Now, the below-given screenshot shows that a text box is added to the Microsoft Excel document. Note: Right-click on the text box and then click the Format Control tab to specify the control properties. Method 2: Add a text box using the Insert tab Microsoft Excel also allows you to add your desired text inside a text box using the text box option under the Insert tab on the ribbon. Steps to insert a text box A list of steps to insert a text box in Microsoft Excel document is discussed below - Step 1: Go to the Search box at the bottom of the desktop. Type Microsoft Excel and press the Enter key to open a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Step 2: Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a New Microsoft Excel document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse document location -> Open button to open an Esxisting Microsoft Excel document. Note: In our case, we are going to open an Existing Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: On the Ribbon, click the Insert tab and then click the Text Box option under the Text section. Note: In Microsoft Excel 2013 and above versions, go to the Format tab and click on the Text Box icon in the Insert Shapes section. Step 4: Using the mouse pointer, drag the text box on your worksheet. Adjust the height and width of the text box according to your requirement. Step 5: Place the cursor inside the text box and start writing the text that you want to add to the textbox. See the screenshot given below. Step 6: After completing the text inside the text box, press Esc to cancel editing mode or click anywhere outside the text box. Now, the below screenshot shows that text is added to the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Method 3: Add a text box with VBA In the Microsoft Excel document, you can also use the programming concept to add a text box. In this method, you can use the UserForm option inside the Insert tab to add the text box. UserForm is the most commonly used tool that contains various different control options such as Text Box, Msg Box, Input Box, and more. Steps to add a text box Follow the below given easiest steps to add a text box with VBA - Step 1: Open a New or an Existing Microsoft Excel document to add a text box. Step 2: Press or strike the Alt + F11 keys together from the keyboard to open/navigate to the VBA pane. Step 3: Go to the Insert tab, a list of options will appear on the screen. Click on the UserForm option to insert UserForm in VBA. Step 4: A small Toolbox dialog box will appear with the UserForm window. Select TextBox form the Toolbox dialog box, as shown in the below screenshot. Step 5: Drag the Text box to the UserForm window. Note: Press the F4 key form the keyboard to view all properties of UserForm. Using these properties, you can easily make necessary changes like changing the name of UserForm, Font, Caption, Height, and many more. Step 6: Type your desired text (My First VBA textbox) in the TextBox. Next TopicHow to save Excel document ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
