https://www.javatpoint.com/environmental-studies-mcq
Environmental Studies MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Environmental Studies MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Environmental Studies MCQ 1) Environmental studies is defined as the branch that deals with the: Design, study, and discovery of new materials. The study of humanities, social, biological, and physical sciences. Incorporate the information and physical sciences. Approach about the natural world and the impact of humans on its integrity. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Approach about the natural world and the impact of humans on its integrity. Explanation: Environmental studies deal with the issues that affect the life of a living organism. It can be various factors that relates to the natural world and the human impact on it. The other three options are related to material science, general studies, and environmental science. 2) Which of the following statement about the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) is true? It was established in 1890 at the Royal Botanical Gardens, Calcutta. It is the first crocodile conservation breeding center in Asia. It was established in 1916 to do an organized survey of fauna in India. It was established in 1982 for research in Wildlife Management. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) It was established in 1916 to do an organized survey of fauna in India. Explanation: Zoological Survey of India was established on July 1, 1916. It was founded to promote the research and survey of the fauna in India. ZSI has millions of specimens till date. The collection of specimens by the ZSI is considered the largest collection in Asia. 3) Which layer of the atmosphere contains the ozone responsible for the absorption of UV (Ultra-Violet) light? Stratosphere Troposphere Mesosphere None of these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Stratosphere Explanation: The ozone present absorbs UV light in the stratosphere. It is the most important aspect of the atmosphere that makes life possible on Earth. 4) The estimated percentage of the forest land that ideally India should have is: 50% 15% 33% 44% Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 33% Explanation: India has a current forest land of about 12%. The ideal forest land area is 33%, while in hills and mountains it is around 45%. It means the estimated forest land in mountains and hills should e two-third. Thus, India needs to increase the forest land to increase the forest cover. 5) Which two countries of the world constitute about 57% of the large dams? India and China India and Brazil China and Brazil India and Japan Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) India and China Explanation: The dams act as a storage space for floods. It reduces the effect of the flood on millions of people. It is also suggested that around 40% of the irrigated land depends on dams. 6) The essential non-metallic minerals are: Granite, marble, limestone Gold, silver, platinum Iron, aluminum, zinc, copper Coal, clay, cement, silica Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Coal, clay, cement, silica Explanation: Non-metallic minerals do not have metals or fuel as their source. 7) Integrated Crop Management is defined as a process to: Use the traditional methods for growing crops. Using alternatives to inorganic fertilizers and pesticides. Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Both (a) and (b) Explanation: The usage of traditional growing crop methods lowers the chance of complete failure of the crops. The research and studies have also shown that using alternatives to inorganic fertilizers and pesticides can also reduce crop failure chances. It is defined as Integrated Crop Management. 8) Which three edible plant species constitute about 60% supply of the world's food energy intake? Wheat, Barley, Oat Wheat, Rice, Maize Wheat, Barley, maize None of these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Wheat, Rice, Maize Explanation: The three essential edible species that constitute about 60% of the world's food energy intake are wheat, rice, and maize. The large producers of these three edible species in India are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and Madhya Pradesh. 9) Which of the following is not a measure of sustainable water management? Preventing leakage from dams and canals Reducing the rate of surface run-off water. Preventing loss in the municipal pipes. Building small reservoirs in place of a few mega projects. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) reducing the rate of surface run-off water. Explanation: The reduction of the surface run-off water rate is the function of the forest. The role of sustainable water management is to organize campaigns to increase awareness of water scarcity. 10) Which element is considered the largest source of world's commercial energy consumption? Coal Oil Natural gas Nuclear Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Oil Explanation: Coal was the largest energy source round the 19th century. But, today, oil is considered the largest source of commercial energy consumption. It constitutes around 39%. Coal has a percentage of energy consumption around 24%. 11) What are the two forms of alcohol are included in biofuels? Ethanol and methanol Ethanol and propanol Methanol and propanol None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Ethanol and methanol Explanation: Biofuels or liquid fuels use two forms of alcohol namely ethanol and methanol. 12) What is the world's largest potential source of biomass energy? Animal waste Industrial waste Fibrous waste of the paper industry Fibrous waste of the sugar industry Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Fibrous waste of the sugar industry Explanation: Fibrous waste is a by-product that is obtained after the juice is extracted from the sugar cane. It is also termed as Bagasse. 13) The functional aspects of the ecosystem are: Energy cycles Nutrient cycles Food chains All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: The Ecosystem comprises of the living and non-living parts that are linked to each other. The functional aspects of the ecosystem are nutrient cycles, food chains, and energy cycles. 14) Which of the following is also called Detrivores? Herbivores Decomposers Carnivores None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Decomposers Explanation: Decomposers are the group of small animals, such as bacteria, worms, etc. It breaks down the dead organic material into simple smaller substances. 15) What are 'keystone' species in an ecosystem? The species whose elimination can seriously affect the ecosystem. The species whose elimination can benefit the ecosystem. The species whose elimination would not affect the ecosystem. None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) The species whose elimination can seriously affect the ecosystem. Explanation: Extinction occurs due to various human activities, such as deforestation, draining wetlands, etc. The elimination of some species can harm the ecosystem. Such species are called keystone species. Hence, the correct answer is an option (a). 16) Which of the following activity is incorrect about the impact of human activities on the ecosystem? Depletion of ground water Extinction of species Decrease of forest area None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) None of the above Explanation: The ecosystem is disrupted due to human activities, which results in the depletion of ground water, extinction of species, decrease of forest area, and many more. Hence, the correct option is answer (d). 17) Which element is a building block of both animals and plant tissues? Sulfur Carbon Nitrogen None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Carbon Explanation: Carbon is a basic building block of both animals and plants tissue. Carbon occurs in the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide. 18) Which human activity can decreases the oxygen levels present in the atmosphere? Deforestation Animal hunting Mining Both (a) and (c) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Deforestation Explanation: Deforestation is the activity of removing trees for commercial purposes. The decrease of plants and trees adversely affects oxygen levels. Hence, deforestation reduces the amount of oxygen present in the atmosphere. 19) A large number of interlinked chains in an ecosystem together forms a: Nitrogen cycle Carbon cycle Food web Food chain Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Food web Explanation: The interlinked chains in an ecosystem together form a food web, which is a basic part of an ecosystem. If the links are disturbed due to any human activities, it can result in loss of various species of an ecosystem. 20) The type of forests grown in the Himalayan mountain region is called: Broad-leaved forests Coniferous forests Deciduous forests None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Coniferous forests Explanation: Coniferous forests grow in regions where the temperature is low. The leaves of these forests are needle-like with downward sloping branches. It makes the snow easily slip off from the trees. 21) Which one of the following is not direct use of forest products? Bamboo for baskets Medicine Gums and resins Grass for grazing Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Gums and resins Explanation: The other three options are the direct use of forest products. Gums and resins are the processes product from the trees. Hence, it is an indirect forest product. 22) Which of the following is a forest service? Reduces the surface run-off rain water. Prevents soil erosion. Regulate the local temperature. All of the above. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: Forests control the flow of water, reduces the surface run-off water, prevent the soil erosion, and regulates the local temperature. Hence, the correct answer is an option (d). 23) Which of the following is not a reason for the forest loss? Increasing use of wood Extinction of species Extensive use of fuel woods Mining and building dams Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Extinction of species Explanation: Extinction of species is a result due to increasing human activities. The increased use of wood, fuel woods, mining, and building dams has led to the forests' rapid shrinking. 24) Which insects live and breed in the forest area? Bees Moths Butterflies All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: Bees, moths, and butterflies are the insects that live and breed in the forest area. The degradation of the forest area results in the decrease of these insects in abundance. 25) Jowar and Bajra grow in the areas that have: High moisture Little moisture No moisture None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Little moisture Explanation: The areas around the water-courses have less moisture. Hence, Jowar and Bajra are grown in areas that have little moisture. 26) Which of the following activity can lower the water table? Soil erosion Growth of human population Over extraction of groundwater Over grazing Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Over extraction of groundwater Explanation: It refers to the excess withdrawal of the ground water with the help of tube-wells. It can lower the water table and can create a dry surrounding. A water table is an area between the soil surface and the rock sediments. 27) Brackish water ecosystems are found in which of the following: Streams Wetlands Coastal shallows Deltas Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Deltas Explanation: Brackish water is found in river deltas that are generally covered by the mangrove forests. 28) Which of the following factors leads to Eutrophication? Excessive use of fertilizers Increase of plant nutrients Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Both (a) and (b) Explanation: Eutrophication is caused due to various factors, such as excessive use of fertilizers, etc., that cause an increase in nutrients. These nutrients increase the underwater vegetation in aquatic ecosystems. It further leads to the destruction of the habitat beneath it. 29) Which of the following is not a Biogeographic zone of India? Thar Desert of Rajasthan The Brahmaputra Plains South-east zone North-east zone Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) South-east zone Explanation: South-east zone is not rich in species. Hence, it is not considered as a Biogeographic zone of India. The region known for its plants and animal species is known as the Biogeographic region. 30) Which day is celebrated as World Environment day? June 10th June 5th July 5th October 20th Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) June 5th Explanation: Environment day is celebrated on June 5 to remind and people aware of protecting the environment. 31) What will be the impact of the absence of ants on the Earth? No effect Destroys life A little adverse impact Decrease in termites Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Destroys life Explanation: The ants play an essential role in existence of life on Earth. The absence of ants may increase the population of termites. Ants introduce air into the soil that allows the water and oxygen to reach the roots in the soil. Hence, the absence of ants may destroy life on the Earth. 32) Name the drug associated with the plant source tea or coffee? Opium Poppy Thorn apple Caffeine Camphor Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Caffeine Explanation: The tea or coffee contains the drug caffeine that has various benefits, such as improved brain functioning, memory, etc. Hence, the correct option is an answer (c). 33) Which sacred grove act as the gene banks for wild plants? Deorais Jahera Mauhak None of these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Deorais Explanation: Deorais is the largest number of sacred groves in India. It also acts as a gene banks for wild plants. 34) What are the numbers of biodiversity hotspots in the world? 18 28 32 36 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 36 Explanation: The 36 hotspots of the world specify the number of endemic species existing in a particular hotspot. 35) The major part of the extinction of species occurs in which of the following bio-rich areas? Tropical forests Wetlands Coral reefs All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: The extinction also occurs in the bio-rich areas and constitutes a major part of the extinction. The bio-rich areas where extinction occurs are tropical forests, coral reefs, and wetlands. 36) Which of the following species is used in indigenous medicine? Zizyphus Tamarind Babul None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) None of the above Explanation: Neem is used in making indigenous medicines. The Zizyphus and tamarind are the types of small and large trees, while tamarind is a type of thorny species. 37) Which of the following element is responsible for groundwater pollution in various states? Chlorine Fluoride Chemicals None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Fluoride Explanation: Fluoride enters through the drinking water and combines with the bones in a human body. It can lead to permanent joint deformities. The high fluoride concentration in the ground water is a major problem in most developing countries. 38) The most frequent and naturally occurring disaster is: Drought Tsunami Flood Earthquake Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Flood Explanation: The most frequent and naturally occurring disasters across the country are floods. It arises due to the irregularities of the monsoon in various parts of the country. 39) The worst natural hazards in the tropics are: Tropical cyclones Tsunami Floods None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Tropical cyclones Explanation: Tropics are the areas of intense low pressure. These cyclones generally occur near the equator over the warm ocean waters. Severe tropical cyclones can be 2 to 3 in a year. 40) UNCED stands for: United Nations Corporation on Environment and Development United Nations Conference on Environment and Development United Nations Corporation on Environment and Disasters United Nations Conference on Environment and Disasters Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) United Nations Conference on Environment and Development Explanation: It was the conference organized in Rio in 1992. It shows that the environment and development of the nation are closely related. Hence, the care and protection of the Earth and its species is the need of today. 41) Which of the following material is not used in urban housing is very energy intensive? Steel Cement Burnt bricks Silver Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Silver Explanation: Silver is not used as a material in urban housing. It is not used in the construction of housing because it is expensive. It also lacks tensile strength and structural qualities. 42) The worst sufferers of environmental destruction are: Rich Moderate class Poor All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Poor Explanation: Poor people suffer the most in environmental destruction. It is due to overcrowded urban areas, lack of food resources, shortage of fuel-wood, etc. It also increases the risk of diseases among the poor. 43) The adaption of traditional medicine in industrialized countries is termed as CAM, which stands for: Cooperative and Alternative Medicine Complementary and Associative Medicine Cooperative and Associative Medicine Complementary and Alternative Medicine Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Complementary and Alternative Medicine Explanation: The traditional medicines are inexpensive and easily available. 44) The single largest preventable cause of cancer is: Tobacco smoking Alcohol consumption Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Tobacco smoking Explanation: Almost 80% of lung cancer deaths are due to tobacco smoking. All other types of cancer are also related to tobacco chewing. 45) Which of the following is the key measure to reduce the number of diarrhea cases? Improved sanitation Food hygiene Safe drinking water All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: Various factors such as proper food hygiene, improved sanitation, and safe water for drinking prevent the spread of diarrhea. 46) Which element present in the drinking water can lead to various fatal diseases? Calcium Arsenic Phosphorus None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Arsenic Explanation: The presence of Arsenic in the drinking water is a serious threat to human health. It is due to the arsenic-rich rocks where the water is filtered. It results in the addition of Arsenic after passing through the rocks. 47) Hepatitis A is a type of: Water-borne disease Air-borne disease Food contamination Both (a) and (c) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Both (a) and (c) Explanation: Hepatitis A is generally caused by food and water contamination through chemical waste, urban sewage, agriculture waste, etc. 48) Forest Conservation act was amended in which of the following year? 1952 1963 1988 1978 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 1988 Explanation: The Forest Conservation Act was amended to create and protect the Reserve Forests for government use. 49) Which of the following gases are not permitted to release by the Government Prevention and Control of Pollution Act? Nitrogen Oxide Sulfur Dioxide Carbon monoxide All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: The above gases are toxic and are restricted by the Government. The toxic nature of these gases exists beyond a prescribed level. 50) The 3R principle is in which of the following order: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reuse, Reduce, Recycle Recycle, Reuse, Reduce, None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Explanation: The 3R principle states that the reduction, reuse, and recycle are the proper method to dispose the residual waste. It does not harm the environment and can be easily followed by everyone. Next TopicWhat is PDFescape ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
