https://www.javatpoint.com/who-command-in-linux
Who command in Linux - javatpoint
Who command in Linux - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev "Who" command in Linux In this tutorial, we will discuss Linux's "Who" command and also learn how it works. Introduction The Linux "who" command lets you display the users currently logged in to your UNIX or Linux operating system. Whenever a user needs to know about how many users are using or are logged-in into a particular Linux-based operating system, he/she can use the "who" command to get that information. This command is straightforward to use, and it displays a variety of essential information about all users who are currently logged-in into the system. In most Linux operating systems, there is a similar command known as "w" which does almost the same thing. The "w" command displays information about all users logged into the current system. In addition, it also displays additional data along with some statistical data. The basic "who" command with no command-line arguments show only the names of users that currently logged-in into the system. In many cases, it may also show some additional information, such as what the terminals they are logging into and the time they logged in, however it depends entirely on the systems used by users. The output of the "who" command usually depends on the users and how they use it. If a user normally types the "Who" command in the terminal and runs it, the output will be the same. It will display the list of the users that are currently logged in to the current operating system. However, if the user runs or uses the "who" command with different arguments, then the output will also be slightly changed or may completely different. Let's see what output we will get if we run the "who" command without any additional options or arguments. The information shown or displayed through this command depends on how you are using this command. If you are using this command without any option or argument, it will display only a small amount of information based on the following points: Time of last system boot Current run level of the system List of logged-in users and more Let see the syntax of the "Who" command without including any arguments: Syntax of the command: 
who
 How to run the "who" command in Linux? The following steps will help you to run the above command even if someone is not familiar enough with Linux operating systems (or new to the Linux Operating system): Step 1. Open the terminal by pressing the Ctrl + Alt + T on the keyboard, as shown in the given image: Step 2. Now, type the following given command in the terminal and press enter: Command: 
Who
 Step 3. Once you press the enter button, it will take a little bit time and display the information like logged-in users' names, last reboot time,, etc. The output of this command may look like as given in the following image: Output We can notice in the above-given image, only one user currently logged in into our system. Thus it displays the information only about the current user. However, if you are using a system to which several other users have access, the above command will display all users logged in to the system. "Who" command with the different arguments Now let's see how to use the "who" command with different options or arguments to display different types of information about different things. Here we will briefly discuss "who" with all its useful options, arguments and also see their practical implementation. 1. Command to display the hostname and user associated with the input/output devices like a keyboard- Syntax 
Who -m -H
 Output 2. To display all details of currently logged in users- With this command's help, one sees all the details of every user logged in to the current system. The syntax of this command is the same except the additional option "-a", as we can see in the given syntax: Syntax 
who -a
 Output Or You can use "who -all" instead of "who -a" as it displays all information. Syntax 
Who  -all
 3. To display information about all active processes that are spawned by the NIT process- This command will help you to display essential information as well as each and every active process. Syntax 
who -p -h
 Output 4. To display the status of the user's message as -, + or? This command will help us to display the status of the user's message. Syntax of this command given below: Syntax 
who -T -H
 Output 5. To display the whole list of logged-in users- This command will help us to display the whole list of the logged-in users. Syntax of this command given below: Syntax 
who -u
 Output 6. To display the whole list of dead processes- One can use this command to see the complete list of all dead processes. The syntax of the command given below: Syntax 
who -d -H
 Output 7. To display system login process details- One can use this command to see the login process. The syntax of the command is given below: Syntax: 
who -l -H
 Output 8. To count the numbers of all logged-in users- We can use this command to see how many users logged in in the form of numbers. The syntax of the command is given below: Syntax: 
who -q -H
 Output 9. To display the current run level of the system- The syntax of the command is given below: 
Who -r
 Output 10. To display the system's username- This command is generally used to know about the actual system's username. The syntax of the command is given below: Syntax 
whoami
 Output 11. To display the list of users and their activities- With the help of this command, you can see the complete list of users and their activities as well, which are logged-in the current system. The command is given below: Syntax 
w
 Output 12. To display user identification information- One can use this command to see the user identification information. The syntax of the command is given below: Syntax 
Id
 Output Next Topic# ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
