https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-a-cloud-platform
What is a cloud platform - Javatpoint
What is a cloud platform - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev What is a cloud platform? There are a ton of ways in which every individual can state the meaning of the cloud platform. But in the simplest way it can be stated as the operating system and hardware of a server in an Internet-based data centre are referred to as a cloud platform. It enables remote and large-scale coexistence of software and hardware goods. Compute facilities, such as servers, databases, storage, analytics, networking, applications, and intelligence, are rented by businesses. As a result, businesses do not need to invest in data centres or computing facilities. They actually pay for the services they offer. Types of Cloud Platforms Cloud systems come in a range of shapes and sizes. None of them are suitable for all. To meet the varying needs of consumers, a range of models, forms, and services are available. They are as follows: Public Cloud: Third-party providers that distribute computing services over the Internet are known as public cloud platforms. A few good examples of trending and mostly used cloud platform are Google Cloud Platform, AWS (Amazon Web Services), Microsoft Azure, Alibaba and IBM Bluemix. Private Cloud: A private cloud is normally hosted by a third-party service provider or in an on-site data centre. A private cloud platform is always dedicated to a single company and it is the key difference between the public and private cloud. Or we can say that a private cloud is a series of cloud computing services used primarily by one corporation or organization. Hybrid Cloud: The type of cloud architecture that combines both the public and private cloud systems is termed to as a Hybrid cloud platform. Data and programs are easily migrated from one to the other. This allows the company to be more flexible while still improving infrastructure, security, and enforcement. Organizations can use a cloud platform to develop cloud-native software, test and build them, and store, back up, and recover data. The major role of it is that will not only help the company to grow but also it helps to perform the data analysis with the help of different algorithms and the results can be a true deal breaker. Streaming video and audio, embedding information into activities, and providing applications on-demand on a global scale are all possibilities. Simply stated, cloud computing is the distribution of computing services over the Internet ("the cloud") in order to provide quicker innovation, more versatile resources, and economies of scale. We usually only pay for the cloud services that we use, which helps us to cut costs, operate our infrastructure more effectively, and scale as our company grows. Top benefits of cloud computing Cloud computing represents a significant departure from how companies have traditionally seen IT services. The following are seven of the most popular reasons why businesses are moving to cloud computing services: Cost Cloud storage reduces the upfront costs of purchasing hardware and software, as well as the costs of setting up and operating on-site datacenters-server racks, round-the-clock power and cooling, and IT professionals to manage the infrastructure. It quickly adds up. Global scale The ability to scale elastically is one of the advantages of cloud computing services. In other words it simply means that we can decide the processing speed , location of the data centre where data is to be stored, storage and even the bandwidth for our process and data. Performance The most popular cloud computing services are hosted on a global network of protected datacenters that are updated on a regular basis with the latest generation of fast and powerful computing hardware. Security Many cloud providers have a comprehensive collection of policies, technologies, and controls to help us to enhance our overall security posture and protect our data, applications, and infrastructure from threats. Speed It means that the huge amount of calculation and the huge data retrieval as in download and upload can happen just within the blink of an eye, obviously depending on the configuration. Reliability Since data can be replicated at several redundant locations on the cloud provider's network, cloud storage makes data backup, disaster recovery, and business continuity simpler and less costly. Types Not all clouds platform that are created are equal, and not every form of cloud computing is appropriate for every situation. A variety of models, styles, and services have emerged to help us to find the best solution for our needs. To begin, we must decide on the type of cloud implementation or cloud infrastructure architecture that will be used to implement our cloud services. Types of cloud services: On the basis of its type the cloud can be divided into 3 types. They are IaaS, PaaS, serverless and SaaS. Understanding what these services are and how they can make our process smooth and a lot easier by knowing their right objective will help our organisation grow more. Type 1- The Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) Cloud computing services in their most basic form. We rent IT infrastructure-servers and virtual machines (VMs), storage, networks, and operating systems-on a pay-as-you-go basis from a cloud provider with IaaS. Type 2- The Platform as a service (PaaS) Cloud computing platforms that provide an on-demand environment for designing, testing, distributing, and managing software applications are referred to as platform as a service. PaaS was built to make it easier for developers to build web or mobile apps easily without having to worry about setting up or maintaining the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network, and databases. Type 3- The Software as a service (SaaS) Software as a service (SaaS) is a method of distributing software applications over the Internet on demand and generally by subscription. SaaS allows cloud providers to host and maintain software applications and underlying infrastructure, as well as handle maintenance such as software updates and security patching. Uses of cloud computing Even if we don't realize it, we're probably using cloud computing right now. If we are watching a movie online, playing games, listening to music, sending email, purchasing things online, transferring money online almost anything we are somewhere using the cloud platform. The cloud has become the heart of the internet and somehow each and everything we use on internet is hosted on cloud. While cloud computing services are just a decade old, it is already being embraced by a wide range of organizations, from small startups to large businesses, government agencies to non-profits, for a variety of reasons. A few examples of the cloud that are use in our daily life and how it is helping the human race to make its life a lot easier. Creation of cloud-native applications We can Build and deploy and also scale web applications or the mobile applications or the API applications quickly with the help of the cloud native applications. Some of the examples of cloud-native technologies and approaches are microservices architecture ,Containers, API-driven communication, Kubernetes, DevOps and many more. Testing and building the applications on cloud infrastructure By the help of the cloud platform and its powerful infrastructure we can quickly be scaled up or down the cost of the application development and even save a lot of time. Cloud platform can be used to Store, back up and recover of data Transferring our data over the Internet to an offsite cloud storage system that is available from every location and device is a more cost-effective way to secure our data on a wide scale. Analyse data In the cloud, unify the data through departments, divisions, and places. Also the machine learning algorithms can be used on the cloud platform to predict the result of any dataset which can ultimately help us in the better analysis and decision making. Streaming of audio and video With high-definition video and audio that is distributed worldwide, we can communicate with our audience anywhere, at any time, on any device. Next TopicWhat Is a Data Centre ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
