https://www.javatpoint.com/history-of-computer-networking
History of Computer Networking - javatpoint
History of Computer Networking - javatpoint ? Home Computer Fundamentals C Java PHP HTML CSS Bootstrap JavaScript jQuery jQuery UI Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Computer Computer Fundamentals What is Computer History of Computer Types of Computer Computer Components Computer Components Input Devices Output Devices Central Processing Unit Hardware Software Operating System Computer Memory Computer Memory Register Memory Cache Memory Primary Memory RAM ROM Secondary Memory Memory Units Computer Network Computer Network Computer Virus Computer Virus Number Systems Number Systems Internet Internet Intranet Extranet Website Shortcut Keys Computer Shortcut Keys Terms Windows Computer Ports Program Printers Microphone Monitor Motherboard Incognito Mode Mouse Memory Card What is a CD What is ID ISO What is Character What is a server What is E-mail What is Keyboard What is Remote What is Webcam What is Data What is URL What is keypad What is hub What is File Bytes Exabyte Gb Kilobyte Megabyte Petabyte Terabyte What is HDD What is SSD Memory vs Storage Non-volatile memory What is M.2 SSD How To Reboot A Computer Multi-Level Cell NAND Flash Memory What is lock screen Block Storage USB flash drive VRAM Cloud Hosting CompactFlash card What is WAP? Classification of Memory Hardware vs Software Uses of Computer Uses of Internet What is Abacus Best Proxy Servers SSL vs TLS Web Console What is the GPU LAN vs WAN SSD vs HDD Introduction to Computer Data Migration JEDEC MLC vs TLC vs SLC NAND Flash VirtualBox Installation Num Lock What is a PC What is MAC Continuous Data Protection Persistent Storage What is Bit Software Definition What is a File System When was the first computer invented How many generations of the computer Minicomputer Fourth Generation of Computer Questions How to backup iPhone to Computer How To Flip Computer Screen What is Computer Science How To Speed Up Computer Why is my Computer so slow How much do computer engineers make How to Clean Computer Screen What is Computer Engineering What is Quantum Computing How does a computer work How to Check Computer Specs How to find computer IP address How to find computer name How to wipe a Computer Advantages of the Internet Disadvantages of the Internet Advantages of Computer What are the disadvantages of a computer How to factory reset a computer How to Build a Computer How to Post on Instagram from Computer How much do Computer Programmers make How to Fax from Computer How much does a computer cost How To Change Computer Name How to Connect Computer to TV How To Connect Printer To Computer What is Computer Programming How To Download Music From YouTube To Computer What is Edge Computing How To Download YouTube Videos To Computer How To Authorize A Computer on iTunes How To Connect Airpods To Computer How To Defrag a Computer Is Computer Science Hard What Does RAM Do In A Computer Who invented the computer How To Change Computer Password How To Hack A Computer How To Download Music To Computer What Does Compute Mean How Does A Quantum Computer Works How to clean Computer How to Edit Your File on Windows, Linux and MacOS How to Set up SSH SOCKS Tunnel for Private Browsing in Windows Small Computer System Interface What is Cyber Law How To Backup Computer How To Scan A Document To Computer How to Transfer Photos from Android to Computer What can you do with Computer Science Degree What is a Desktop Second Generation of Computer Third Generation of Computer Fourth Generation of Computer Fifth Generation of Computer input vs output device What is USB What is Recycle Bin What is Hybrid Topology Cache Memory vs Virtual Memory What is a storage device What is a Crimping Tool What is HDMI What is a Video Card GPU vs CPU What is a Sound Card Blu-ray vs. DVD What is a Floppy Disk What is a DIP Switch What is a Template History of Computer Networking What is a Firmware What is a Hard Copy MCQ Computer Fundamental MCQ Interview Questions HR Interview next ? ? prev History of Computer Networking A computer network is a group of computers that has the potential to transmit, receive and exchange voice, data, and video traffic. A network connection can be set up with the help of either cable or wireless media. In modern times, computer networks are very important as information technology is increasing rapidly all over the world. The network and data communication are the essential factors to rise information technology in the world as technology's advancement is on the system, including the gadgets. ARPANET began the networking long ago. In 1957, when SPUTNIK Satellite was launched by Russia. An agency named ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECT AGENCY (ARPA) was started by American, and its first satellite was launched within 18 months after establishment. Then they used ARPANET to share the information on another computer. America's Dr. LIED LIEDER has this all responsibility. Then, ARPANET came to India in 1969, and its name changed from Indian to NETWORK. For the United States Department of Defense, the funding of the design of the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET) was began by ARPA. In 1969, the network began to develop on the basis of the developed designs in the 1960s. The below table contains a complete history of computer networking: Year Event 1961 In this year, Leonard Kleinrock proposed the earliest computer networks, which was the idea of ARPANET. 1965 In 1965, Donald Davies coined the term "packet" to describe how to send data between computers on a network. 1969 Although In 1966, the development of ARPANET began, officially started ARPANET in 1969. It was considered one of the first computer networks in which first two nodes, UCLA and SRI (Stanford Research Institute) were connected, and to use packet switching. To provide and define information about network protocols, procedures, and computer communications, the first RFC surfaced as a document in April 1969. 1969 On 29 August 1969, the first IMP and network switch were sent to UCLA. On ARPANET, the first data transmission was sent by using it. 1970 NCP, stands for NetWare Core Protocol, released by Steve Crocker and a team at UCLA for use with NetWare. 1971 In 1971, the first e-mail was sent to across a network to other users by Ray Tomlinson. 1973 While working at Xerox PARC, Robert Metcalfe developed the Ethernet in 1973. In the same year, ARPA deployed the first international network connection, known as SATNET. In 1973, VoIP technology and capabilities were officially introduced, which made a VoIP call. However, until 1995, the software was not available for users that could make VoIP calls. 1974 In this year, the use of first router was began, but they were not considered true IP routers. 1976 Originally called a gateway, Ginny Strazisar develop the first true IP router. 1978 In 1978, the TCP/IP protocol was developed and invented by Bob Kahn for networks; it was developed with help from Vint Cerf. 1981 In the United States, between IBM mainframe systems, BITNET was created in 1981 as a network. The U.S. National Science Foundation developed the CSNET (Computer Science Network) in the same year 1981. 1983 For using TCP/IP, ARPANET finished the transition. The first DNS implement by Jon Postel and Paul Mockapetris in 1983. 1986 This is the year in which a backbone for ARPANET, the National Science Foundation Network was came online, which finally took the place of ARPANET in 1990s. In the same year, with the original BITNET, BITNET II was introduced to deal with bandwidth issues. 1988 In 1988, the first T1 backbone was included with ARPANET. AT&T, Lucent, and NCR introduced the WaveLAN network technology in 1988. In 1988, for the first time, the explanation of network firewall technology was published. In the same year, Digital Equipment Corporation developed it. This paper had the detail about the first firewall, known as a packet filter firewall. 1990 The first network switch was developed and introduced by a U.S. network hardware company named Kalpana in 1990. 1996 In 1996, an IPv6 was introduced as an improvement over IPv4, as well as embedded encryption, improved routing. 1997 In June 1997, the 802.11 standards, containing transmission speeds up to 2 Mbps, for Wi-Fi were introduced. 1999 The 802.11a standard, containing transmission speeds up to 25 Mbps to use the 5 GHz band, was officially made in 1999. Another standard 802.11b was available to use for the public in mid-1999, which offered transmission speeds up to 11 Mbps. In September 1999, for use with 802.11b, the WEP encryption protocol was released. 2003 802.11g devices, contained transmission speeds up to 20 Mbps, were available to the public in January 2003. In the same year, for use with 802.11g, the WPA encryption protocol is released. 2004 In 2004, as a replacement for WPA, the WPA2 encryption protocol was introduced. By 2006, WPA2 certification was compulsory for all Wi-Fi devices. 2009 The 802.11n standard can operate on the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bandwidths and offers higher transfer speeds over 802.11a and 802.11g. Officially, it was made in 2009. 2018 In January 2018, WPA3 encryption was released by the Wi-Fi Alliance, which comprises security enhancements over WPA2. Next TopicWhat is a Firmware ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
