https://www.tutorialspoint.com/data_structures_algorithms/index.htm
Data Structure and Algorithms Tutorial - Tutorialspoint
Data Structure and Algorithms Tutorial - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks Data Structures & Algorithms DSA - Home DSA - Overview DSA - Environment Setup Algorithm DSA - Algorithms Basics DSA - Asymptotic Analysis DSA - Greedy Algorithms DSA - Divide and Conquer DSA - Dynamic Programming Data Structures DSA - Data Structure Basics DSA - Array Data Structure Linked Lists DSA - Linked List Basics DSA - Doubly Linked List DSA - Circular Linked List Stack & Queue DSA - Stack DSA - Expression Parsing DSA - Queue Searching Techniques DSA - Linear Search DSA - Binary Search DSA - Interpolation Search DSA - Hash Table Sorting Techniques DSA - Sorting Algorithms DSA - Bubble Sort DSA - Insertion Sort DSA - Selection Sort DSA - Merge Sort DSA - Shell Sort DSA - Quick Sort Graph Data Structure DSA - Graph Data Structure DSA - Depth First Traversal DSA - Breadth First Traversal Tree Data Structure DSA - Tree Data Structure DSA - Tree Traversal DSA - Binary Search Tree DSA - AVL Tree DSA - Spanning Tree DSA - Heap Recursion DSA - Recursion Basics DSA - Tower of Hanoi DSA - Fibonacci Series DSA Useful Resources DSA - Questions and Answers DSA - Quick Guide DSA - Useful Resources DSA - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Data Structure and Algorithms Tutorial PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion Data Structures are the programmatic way of storing data so that data can be used efficiently. Almost every enterprise application uses various types of data structures in one or the other way. This tutorial will give you a great understanding on Data Structures needed to understand the complexity of enterprise level applications and need of algorithms, and data structures. Why to Learn Data Structure and Algorithms? As applications are getting complex and data rich, there are three common problems that applications face now-a-days. Data Search ? Consider an inventory of 1 million(106) items of a store. If the application is to search an item, it has to search an item in 1 million(106) items every time slowing down the search. As data grows, search will become slower. Processor speed ? Processor speed although being very high, falls limited if the data grows to billion records. Multiple requests ? As thousands of users can search data simultaneously on a web server, even the fast server fails while searching the data. To solve the above-mentioned problems, data structures come to rescue. Data can be organized in a data structure in such a way that all items may not be required to be searched, and the required data can be searched almost instantly. Applications of Data Structure and Algorithms Algorithm is a step-by-step procedure, which defines a set of instructions to be executed in a certain order to get the desired output. Algorithms are generally created independent of underlying languages, i.e. an algorithm can be implemented in more than one programming language. From the data structure point of view, following are some important categories of algorithms ? Search ? Algorithm to search an item in a data structure. Sort ? Algorithm to sort items in a certain order. Insert ? Algorithm to insert item in a data structure. Update ? Algorithm to update an existing item in a data structure. Delete ? Algorithm to delete an existing item from a data structure. The following computer problems can be solved using Data Structures ? Fibonacci number series Knapsack problem Tower of Hanoi All pair shortest path by Floyd-Warshall Shortest path by Dijkstra Project scheduling Audience This tutorial is designed for Computer Science graduates as well as Software Professionals who are willing to learn data structures and algorithm programming in simple and easy steps. After completing this tutorial you will be at intermediate level of expertise from where you can take yourself to higher level of expertise. Prerequisites Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a basic understanding of C programming language, text editor, and execution of programs, etc. Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
