https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-prepare-for-java-interview
How to prepare for Java Interview - Javatpoint
How to prepare for Java Interview - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev How to prepare for Java Interview Java is one of the rapidly growing programming languages worldwide. Most of the companies are chosen Java to build Desktop, Web, and Mobile applications. Product-based companies such as Google, Amazon, Facebook, or Microsoft have a different way to take Java interviews in comparison to the traditional programming interviews. To crack the Java interview, we should have knowledge of Data structures and Algorithms like String and Java. The questions are easier and mostly based on practical work. The questions are related to the Java programming language and JDK API. The questions are also related to the OOPs concept because Java is based on OOPs. So, we should also have great knowledge about the OOPs concepts. Java is mostly used as an application programming language, so the focus is mostly aligned with the questions related to API, Java concepts, and design patterns. The level of Java interview depends on the experience you have. If you are a fresher applicant, the interview process and questions are not tricky, straightforward, and to the point. On the other hand, if you are an experienced guy and have experience of more than two years, the interview process and questions are tricky and not straightforward. Most questions are based on Java's advanced concept, such as swings, API, and AWT. Which topics to prepare for Java interviews? Java is an ocean of concepts. There are various concepts on which the interviewer can ask questions. We told you before that the level of the questions depends on the experience you have. For a fresher guy, the question can be related to the Java fundamentals like String, Collections, hashcode, API, and OOPs. The question for an experienced guy can be related to the same topics but can be too trivial for them. Java Fundamentals Data Structure and Algorithms Object-Oriented Concepts Multithreading, concurrency, and thread basics Java Collections Framework Date type conversion and fundamentals Array Garbage Collection String SOLID design principles GOF Design Patterns Abstract class and interface Java basics, e.g., equal and hashcode Generics and Enum Java IO and NIO Data structure and algorithm in Java Common Networking protocols JVM internals Regular expressions JDBC Java Best Practices XML Processing in Java Date, Time, and Calendar JUnit Programming questions All the Java developers who are serious about interviews should have knowledge of the concept as mentioned above. If we want to work in a company that develops applications based on core Java multithreading, we should know the core Java topics like multithreading and concurrency. Enum, Collections, JVM internals, GC algorithms, and Generics. In the same way, if we want to work in a company that develops applications based on Java Web Service, we should have knowledge about REST API, SOAP API, JSON, XML, and other relevant topics. There are several books and tutorials are available in the market. If you are a beginner and want to learn Java within 30 days, click here. Next TopicJava callback function ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
