https://www.javatpoint.com/google-adwords
Google Adwords Tutorial - Javatpoint
Google Adwords Tutorial - Javatpoint ? Home Java Google Adwords Digital Marketing SMO SEO Computer Fundamentals HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery Google Classroom Projects Interview Q Forum Google Adwords Google Adwords Tutorial Google Adwords Tutorial The people who own a company and want to grow their business at a large scale, Google Adwords is the right and best platform for them. Also, the entrepreneurs who are passionate about their startups and wish for a wealthy future, Google Adwords can become a helping hand in fulfilling their wishes. Especially the owners of any website can make use of Google Adwords in order to increase their website rank as well as the traffic over their websites. Google Adwords plays a tremendous role in the world of Digital Marketing. Various companies and businesses advertise their products across the globe using Google Adwords, and conversely, Google Adwords targets new customers for them and help in growing such organizations. In this one page tutorial, we will know about Google Adwords and its working. We will also learn how it helps in growing companies and encourage us to know more about it. What is Google Adwords Google Adwords is a platform offered by Google. It is an advertising tool or system of Google, which is also known as Google Ads. It was initially released on 23 October 2000. It is an online platform that let business and companies briefly advertise their products, services, offerings, application installations, and many more to the internet users within the Adwords network. This online platform provides a bidding space to the advertisers. Advertisers bid on certain keywords that are perfect for the competition and relevant for the company's growth. These perfectly selected keywords appear as the clickable ads for the Google search boxes. Google Adwords is the game of auction and bids. There are millions of businesses or startups which use Google Adwords for advertising their products and reach new customers and scale up their businesses. The advertisers need to pay some amount for these clicks, and in this way, Google makes money from the searches. However, if the advertiser bids on the wrong keywords, Google Adwords will become less effective for the company's profit and may or may not work for the advertiser. The records tell us that Google has proven too effective in leading the growth of companies and businesses. The advertisers are required to invest their money on the right keywords, write strong content, and use high-quality CTR ads. Usually, Google Adwords places the ads on two broad networks to reach out to several internet users and target them as new customers: Search Network: It is the target network where advertisers bids on the perfect keywords, and when any searcher type those keywords on any search engine, the advertiser gets the chance to display the related advertisement on the search engine, respectively. A search engine network can be the Google search engine. Display Network: It is the target network in which the advertisers can display their ads as Banner-style advertisements on those websites which are part of the Google Display Network. Such type of display networks like videos, mobile applications, non-search websites. The display network method reaches almost 90% searchers when they make any search on youtube or using any particular app on their mobile phones. These ads get displayed at that time. Both these networks have distinct scenarios and are managed by Google Adwords. But the term 'Adwords' refers to the 'Search Network' only. The advertisers refer to the Display Network via their own names. What are Google Ads Keywords Keywords are the words or phrases through which the internet users complete their search. For example, you have a keyword as 'sell my mobile' for an ad, and when any user searches for 'sell my mobile', your ad will appear on the search result page because of the keyword. Google Ads keywords are those keywords on which the advertiser bids to see their advertisements with the top searches of Google, i.e., on SERP (Search Engine Results Page). If the keywords of the advertisers are powerful enough and are having good quality scores, they appear as Google Ads with the top searched links. The advertisers use keyword research tools to examine and know the keywords that can bring good traffic to their website as well as ads. Google Adwords is responsible for providing huge profits to various companies and businesses. In turn, Google earns a high profit. The revenue of Google Adwords is based on some top expensive keywords. The following chart shows the top 20 expensive keywords, which return a huge revenue of approx. 97% in Google accounts: Most of the top expensive keywords are related to the financing and industry sectors. Both of these sectors manage a vast sum of money. Google takes a high cost for these expensive keywords from the advertisers whose products or services are related to the finance and industry sectors through PPC (pay-per-click) advertisements. How to deal with expensive keywords If a person begins a startup related to finance, to use Google Adwords for the advertisement, a good amount needs to be paid for bidding because mostly finance-related keywords are in the list of expensive keywords of Adwords. In this case, the question of "whether should I use Adwords?" pinches the mind. So, for such businesses or startups, Google Adwords provides some beneficial tips to them: Specific Selection: Make specific selections while selecting the best out of the best keywords. It is because if you are investing money in something, you should choose the best with all perfectness. If your selection relates to the most expensive keywords, then it's about investing a huge amount for it. Quality Score: Quality score matter a lot in the Adwords auction. If your keyword has a high-quality score, it will lower your CPC, and you will pay a low amount for the most successful keywords. So, choose good rankings and the right keywords for bidding. Relevancy: The keywords you choose must be highly relevant that whenever a searcher searches any related keyword, your ad gets displayed in the topmost ads. Make use of negative keywords: Although negative keywords result in high CPC and will never move towards conversions, they become necessary when bidding on expensive keywords at a high cost. Optimize Landing Pages: Landing Pages plays a vital role in attracting viewers towards your product. The conversion rate due to optimized landing pages is from 20% to 30 %, whereas normal conversion rates stop around 2% to 3%. So, you can feel the difference and the profit rate too. Expand into display: If you create an advertisement related to your product brand awareness, you should use display networks that can connect many new customers with you. Also, display networks bring out affordable clicks for you. Online pay-per-click advertisements bring 97 % of the revenue to Google. Google Adwords Bidding Process Google Adwords has created a trustworthy and happy relationship with various companies around the globe. Adwords Bidding is the process where several companies bids with certain keywords and play the auction. These companies bid on their powerful products as keywords and earn a high profit as well as more satisfied customers. The selection of the Adwords depends on the quality and rank of your ad. The score or rank of a particular ad is calculated by the Maximum Bid times Quality Score of the ad. As a result, the advertiser, whose ad has the highest position or rank, wins the ad position in the Google Adwords. In case, your ad gets the lowest bid in the Adwords auction, and then you are required to pay maximum bid per click. Google Adwords bidding puts the penalty over the advertisers who bid with low ranking or poor quality scores ads for Adwords. On the other hand, if the advertiser bids with high-quality scores or rank, Google Adwords bidding decreases the rate for them. So, in this way, Google Adwords performs its bidding process. Bidding Methods There are two bidding approaches, i.e., traditional approach and alternate approach. Traditional Method CPC: After making your advertisement as Google Adwords ad, you need to pay the required amount to the Google Adword whenever an internet user clicks on your ad. Such a paying method is known as Cost per click CPC. So, in this way, all those advertisers having their ads like Google Adwords pay a sufficient amount to the Adwords per each user's click. Also, the average CPC cost depends on the type of company or business. However, a rough estimation is $2.32 on the Search Network that is determined by Google and $0.58 on the Display Network, i.e., a network where Google Adwords display your ads. Alternate Methods Under the alternate approach, there are two bidding methods used: CPM: It extends for 'Cost Per Thousand Impressions'. CPM is used for calculating the online advertising campaigns through impressions. An impression defines the appearance of an advertisement on a web page. Impressions define how an ad is displayed or appeared on a webpage of any specific website. Usually, CPM calculates the costs of internet advertisements. Also, CPM bidding is applicable for Display Network bidding and may include remarketing too. CPA: It is an acronym for the 'cost-per-action/acquisition' bidding method. The alternative approach used in CPA is different from the traditional approach of CPC. In CPA bidding, the maximum bid cost is specified and paid for each action/conversion or target cost per action. Unlike in the CPC bidding method where the advertiser specifies the bidding cost for each click. Note: In case your business brand is new to Google Adwords, or your completed goals contain the low volume, then Adwords will not allow you to bid via the CPA method. You need to do at least 15 conversions in the last month or the past 30 days. You can also import your goals from Google Analytics and include them for managing the given target CPA. Conversion Optimizer Conversion Optimizer refers to the optimization of the conversion rates. It is also known as Target CPA Bidding. It is because, through Google Adwords, people make conversions by bidding on various selected keywords. Advertisers bid on certain keywords through different bidding methods for making conversions. One such method is CPA (Cost per Action) or Cost per Conversion in which advertisers pay the cost for every action, and Conversion optimizer uses it for making conversions. Eligibility If beginners wish to use Target CPA Bidding, they need to use the Google Conversion Tracking tool that will let them track the conversions. Also, they need to accrue at least 30 conversions (i.e., the minimum value) in the last month. Such eligibility is required so that Google can help such beginners in optimizing their bids using that conversion history. Working of Conversion Optimizer The entire working of Conversion Optimizer depends on your intelligence and smartness. Case 1: If you set a relatively low target CPA or Cost per Conversion for a campaign, the outcome will be cheaper as well as fewer conversions. It is because, in this case, Target CPA Bidding will enable conservative bids on those keywords on which Google shows surety in terms of keywords probability to make conversions for you. Case 2: If you set a relatively high target CPA or Cost per Conversion for a campaign, the outcome will be a high number of conversions with higher costs. It is because when you pay more, Conversion Optimizer bids more aggressively and competes at a broader level of keywords to secure a higher ad position for your advertisement. Thus, by focusing on the relevancy and quality of your selected keywords for bidding, you become eligible for more website conversions with lower costs. Advantages of Google Conversion Optimizer Google Conversion Optimizer has proven more advantageous than 'commercial automated bid management' software. These advantages are described below and also will let you know when one should use the Conversion Optimizer: Target CPA Bidding offers free service. Only you need to pay the CPA. It is because Google does not take any fee or charge for handling your bids. On the other hand, if you use any commercial bid management software or even hire a PPC, it does not provide its services free of cost. So, for handling your bids, you need to pay some relevant fees or charges. Google Conversion Optimizer constantly monitors the behavior of the conversions multiple times each day. It is difficult as well as a critical task to be performed manually, but Conversion Optimizer performs it very well. Google Conversion Optimizer also helps in adjusting the keywords bids so that you do not need to pay too high or too low than the target cost for getting the conversions at or below their target or required cost. Disadvantages of Google Conversion Optimizer With respect to the above-discussed advantages, some negative points describe the bad side of Conversion Optimizer and also let you know when one should not use it. These points are as follow: Transparency: One should have the right to know how Google handles its keywords biddings. In the case of Google Conversion Optimizer, the Bid Optimizer is not able to explain the fact. Rather, you are not able to view your bids that are being placed on your behalf. It is worrying and extremely cost-prohibitive for small companies or businesses because they have just begun their journey and not have too many dollars to throw per month. Control: As Google Conversion Optimizer place and change the keywords bid on your behalf. Thus, you should have full control of the program. But, Google Conversion Optimizer does not provide such control to its users. Trust: When something gets hidden from us, we can't and cannot make trust. In the case of Google Conversion Optimizer, it does not provide full transparency. As a result, certain questions hit the user's mind like "whether Google is really trying to meet my goals and objectives or trying to meet their income and revenues?" Thus, the use and trust of Google Conversion Optimizer depend on the user. You can use it on your own and watch out the results. Optimizing the Conversion Optimizer The Google Conversion Optimizer is used for making conversions by Target CPA Bidding software. In order to optimize the Conversion Optimizer, the manipulation of the keywords bids should be perfect so that the Conversion Optimizer can work its best. The keyword bids going to be manipulated should be: Relevant: Choose relevant and appropriate keywords for bidding so that bid manipulators may find the optimal bid levels in less time. Matched with Relevant Ad Text: Your written text must be attractive and relevant to the ad text. If not so, such ads will make less successful conversions for you. Relevant to Each Other: When you create campaigns or keyword groupings, then the keywords of one group should be based on one specific topic and so on. It leads to more number of conversions. Relevant Associated Landing Pages: Do not use fake words or over text while creating the Landing pages for your advertisement just for attracting the searchers. When a search clicks over your ad and visits the site, the relevancy of the page with the advertisement should be similar and matched. Adwords Campaign A Google Adwords Campaign is the one created within the user's account. Certain Ad groups compose the campaign. Under each group, different ad texts are written on the basis of keyword type, a searcher types. Thus, they are served according to the searcher search needs. Usually, Campaign Groupings include geography, product type, and device segmentation. Further, some basic terms can lead to good benefits when used in campaigns": Guaranteed qualified traffic A higher CTR A lower CPC Better paid search engine rankings Good Quality Score Maintaining the Adwords Campaign An Adwords requires constant Maintainance because PPC (pay-per-click) and SEO are iterative and continuous processes which need continuous focus over some fields that include: Keyword research Analyzing Keyword data Prioritizing landing pages for PPC ads. Using a bidding tool for revising the bids. Grouping keywords Adwords Campaign is not something which once created is enough and can move on. You need to manage it continuously, and it eats a lot of time to be always attentive to the above fields. However, with wordstream, it becomes easy to maintain the Adwords campaigns. Wordstream helps you by managing the most time-consuming and laborious parts of the search advertising process, such as finding new keywords and organizing them. Other decisions such as how much you need to spend, on which keywords you should focus, and maintaining bids depend and maintained by you. Cost Affecting Factors The cost of the Adwords campaign is determined by certain factors that indulge bidding strategies as well as organization goals. Thus, it totally depends on the company type and its intelligence and smartness to select the keywords and bids for playing the smart game. It is the Google Adwords' responsibility to execute an auction and determine the ads to be displayed on the SERP and ad's position in case the searcher conducts any search. There are the following factors that affect the cost of creating a campaign: Keywords: The whole game of Google Adwords depends on the keywords. The best out of best you choose the keywords, the better outcome you will earn. Keywords create a great impact on the cost. Your Bids: It is the maximum price rate you wish to invest or pay for your advertisement clicks. The selection of the bidding amount depends on the ranking and quality score of the keywords. Advertisements Quality: The quality of the advertisement matters much for its relevancy. Appropriate advertisements should be linked and displayed on relevant websites. It is a good approach that increases the quality of your ad. Ad Extensions: Using Ad extensions, advertisers can display extra information with their ads like web page links, contact details, etc. Ad extensions result in more attracting clicks as well as improve ad visibility. Thus, this factor highly affects the cost and may bring a good profit amount and reduced CPC rates. How Google determines the Quality Score and rank of your Ads Google uses a metric for determining the value of your ad. This metric determines how valuable, relevant, and useful your ad is for the users. Overall the quality of ad depends on good keywords selection for bidding, CTR of the ad, and the quality of your content. Higher is the quality of your ad leads to more money-saving, low Cost per Click rates, and gain more profit for your business. Google determines your ad's rank by the position of your ad on the page of the search engine and by combining the quality score and maximum bids put by your company. In this way, Google Adwords determine the value of your ad. Although, both these factors are used for determining the usefulness of an ad, both quality score and rank are differentiable from one another. Ad rank is based on the position of the search engine page, your ad will appear whereas the Quality score is just a part of advertisement positioning process and it is based on the value or usefulness of your ad for the searchers. The advertisement positioning refers to your ad's position on the search engine page with the other related ads. There are many points we need to discuss Google Adwords, but let's get started with Google Adwords, and step by step, we will learn the essential points. Advertising on Google Adwords There are following steps an advertiser needs to follow for making their ads as Google Ads on Google: Step 1: Set goals for creating an account You need to set some goals for which you wish to use Google Adwords. It is because before taking a new step, it is necessary to clear the question marks of 'Why and What'. Step 2: Finding and determining the audience It is necessary to determine the customers who are interested in your products. Customers are the most precious element for any business growth. Thus, it becomes essential for businesses to value their customers because everyone loves to get respect. So, you should be aware that when your customers are active on the search and on which device they are doing the searches. Step 3: Conduct Keyword Research You need to bid on good keywords for making your ads like Google Ads. For perfect keywords research, you need to use the 'keyword tools'. A keyword tool helps to find out the cost, the competitors, and volume for the searched terms at each product or keyword sale. The keyword research helps to make your product advertisements as Google Adwords. Step 4: Set the budget and the biddings Using keyword tools, some perfect keywords are selected for bidding. But you should be careful enough while choosing the good budgets for those advertisements that can bring your company a high-profit rate. Step 5: Structuring your Google Adwords account. When you create your Google Adwords account, you will learn to create and run various campaigns. Each campaign carries its certain goals. In each campaign, you should select the most relevant and effective keywords from plenty of keywords. The content for the keywords should be perfectly done because if the headline of an ad is effective, the advertiser will receive more number of responses. At each step, you can get some guidance from Google and believe it is not a difficult task to create campaigns. However, it is tricky to create good campaigns. Ensure the quality score of your keywords because Google highly appreciates the quality score of your ads. Step 6: Write the best or high-performing content you can for your ads. The ads that are written should be the killing and the hottest one. You should be able to maximize the CTR of your advertisement. CTR can be increased by attractive and compelling headlines related to the ads. For example, emotional ads get a good CTR rate. Step 7: Create high-performing Landing Pages. Landing Pages are those pages through which people reach your websites and know about your product, which you described in your advertisement. If your landing pages are effective, searchers will probably click over your ads and may show some interest after the visit, and else they will continue their other search work. So, there are a few points you should follow for building an effective Landing Page for your ads: Landing Page forms should be minimized because it is the most important part of the landing page. However, advertisers take it wrong to understand. Some advertisers create their landing pages either too long, so the searcher may not click over the page or sometimes too short that it may not hold all the necessary information. Features and benefits both matters for any product. So, while creating an advertisement for a product or service, your product or service should offer the best features so that the customers may get the best features with high benefits. So, focus not only on features but also on the benefits. Use the best, attractive, colorful, and high-quality pictures or images for your product or service advertisement. Include CTA (call-to-action) on your landing page or ad that asks the visitor to enter into the next step. CTA appears like a button on which some combination of influencing words are written. If your CTA is strong, the customer may be compelled to move to the next step, and so on. If a user is searching on mobile, make sure that your created landing page is compatible with mobile phones too and may work perfectly. Other than this, let the visitors skip the landing page and include contact options so that visitors can directly call you instead of enjoying your boring and unresponsive landing page. Landing Pages are just like the front page of the project files that everyone might have created in their schools or colleges. It was a fascinating, attractive, and colorful front page that forced our teachers to visit each page of our file and push their hands to give 100% remarks for our project. Step 8: Install Conversion Tracking in Your Adwords Conversion Tracking is an essential tool for any Google Adwords ads. Using it, the company will get to know the total number of sales from a number of clicks. It is not that each visitor who clicked your ad and visited your product description might result in sales. Conversion tools let to know the total resulting sales from all clicks over your advertisement. It lets you filter the leads, downloads, sign-ups for your product or inquiry, and other actions. It also allows you to filter the working campaign areas and optimize your bids, keywords, ad text for those areas of the campaign which are not working. So, place the requisite code on your website and then create conversion goals using Google Adwords or Google Analytics. Step 9: Build remarketing lists Create a remarketing list at an earlier stage. Remarketing lists will help you to keep your service or product in front of the prospects even if not converted on the first site visit. Remarketing is a powerful tool, as depending on click-through is not sufficient for your business growth. Through the remarketing method, an advertiser can notify those visitors who have clicked over ads and show some interest in your service or product. Step 10: Make routine optimization of your Adwords. Check and test each campaign and all other necessary updates needed for your ad on a daily routine. Elimination of bad keywords and non-working areas, adjusting bids on the basis of your selected keywords, and many more should be done constantly. It will help to optimize your ads better and may bring more growth for your business. Step 11: Profits and benefits Lastly, business accomplishes growth through strategies. Make your planning and strategies too effective that when your bidding keywords stand with its other competitors, they may secure the highest rank and maximum quality score, among others. Understand these steps carefully and finally start creating your first Adwords advertisement. Get Started with Google Adwords To get started with Google Adwords, a company or business needs to begin by setting up an account on Google Adwords. To set up an account for Google Adwords, follow the below steps: 1) Initiate to ads.google.com on the web browser of your system. 2) To set up an account, you need to have a Google account. On the site, you will get two options. Either to 'Get Started' with an existing account or 'Sign in' with a new Google account. 3) After logging with your account, you will easily proceed if you are clear with the steps discussed above. You need to create a new campaign for which Adwords will ask your goals for which you want to create an advertisement. Specify your goal and click Next. A snapshot is shown below: 4) Finally, you will be four steps away from setting your first campaign. Adwords will ask you to describe each step in order to bring good results to you. There will be four steps, as shown below: Step 1) Your business & audience The first step will be completed when you: Describe Your Business Select your audience and the range until where you want to appear. Set up keyword themes. You can also select the language you want to use for your advertisement. The snapshots of the complete step are shown below: Step 2: Your ad Now, you need to write and describe your ad with attractive headings and descriptions. As you type the headings and description, Adwords enables the hand-to-hand Ad preview to you so that you can see how your ad is going to look. Specify the website or location where you want the visitor to visit when the visitor clicks on your ad. Click Next. Step 3: Budget and Review Under this step, you need to complete two points: Set your budget Review your Campaign. You can edit again if needed. The snapshots of the complete step are given below: Step4: Set up billing Finally, chase your mind and set up the billing details. For making payments, Google Adwords provides two options. You can choose either Automatic Payments or Manual Payments. Through automatic payments, you can make payment after collecting or accruing clicks. Accordingly, charges are applied when you reach the value of threshold billing or after 30 days of your last payment. It is like the post-paid billing of your mobile phone calls, i.e., use then pay. Manual Payments are like prepaid charges of a mobile phone, i.e., pay then use. In manual payments, you make payments before using the services, i.e., prepaid services. As you use the services, charges are deducted accordingly from your payment amount. Once your payment finishes or diminishes, all advertising gets suspended until another payment is made. You can make payment either through debit card or the credit card of your bank account. The payment is made on a monthly basis. 5) After filling the payment details, agree to T&C of Google Adwords and submit. Google verifies your account from the respective bank, and it can be a little time-consuming process. It is better to use your credit card for making per month payments and wish to see your ads up as well as running. So, after processing these steps successfully, you complete your account setup in Google Adwords world and successfully create your first campaign. Advertising Process of Google The question is, "what is the actual working process of Google Adwords?". The working of Google Adwords is similar to an auction where people bids with the possible highest amount value they can to get the auction thing. But the auction process of Google Adwords is different from the normal auction process. The auction process of Google Adwords depends not only on the bids but also on the quality score as well as the rank of the keywords. It means that it is not a matter of money, or the person who bids with the highest amount gets the thing. So, advertisers with good quality score and rank are richer than advertisers with poor quality score keywords. It means if you have good relevance ad campaigns with a good quality score, you can become a player in the competition. The whole game depends on the concept of keywords. The advertiser identifies the relevant keywords and bids on them with the suitable price. Whenever the searcher enters a keyword into Google, the ad auction takes place each time. It means that every single search for the bidding keywords gives an opportunity to you and to your ads to appear to certain prospective new customers. These customers actively look towards the product ads you are selling. Your ad will be shown up at the exact right moment. So, in this way, Google best grow your business and makes advertising on Google much powerful. Auction in Google Adwords The auction process lets you bid on Google Adwords with their best and perfect keywords. The auction of Google Adwords runs billion times in a month. The auction makes it easy for the users to find the relevant ads for their search results, and conversely promotes the advertisers to target and get new customers. When some text is typed as a search query on Google, the search engine processes the request and runs the auction that determines the position of the ad and cost per click (CPC) of each advertiser. Uncertainly, not all advertisements get chances to play the bidding game and participate in the auction. How does an auction work Initially, a person Sheero gets a query and scratches his mind to get it solved. He thought that let's get the solution through the internet. He opens google.com on a browser and puts the query in the search box of the browser. Now, Google comes into play. It finds the related keyword in the Adwords advertiser's pool and determines if an auction can begin. In case Google finds that more than one advertiser is bidding on the related search keyword, the auction gets triggered. In this, way auction comes into action. Finally, Sheero finds various topmost links and query related ads. In case, he finds the displayed Adwords ad impressive, and the advertiser can get a new customer for the business. Defining Eligibility for Adwords Auction Following points will tell you that when you or your ads are eligible for Google Adwords auction: The eligibility of your Google Ad is determined by the relevancy of your selected keywords for bidding. The quality score of the selected keywords determines your eligibility. The rank of the keywords, plus the relevancy of your keywords with the user's search, play a vital role in determining eligibility. Once your keywords become eligible for the Adwords auction, Google selects the most relevant keyword from your account and has specified maximum bids and the associated ads. Also, you can have only a single entry from your account for the query auction. Features of Google Adwords There are following features of Google Adwords: Keyword Planner Tool: It is the tool that helps the advertisers to plan new search network campaigns or expand their existing campaigns. It helps advertisers to get more keywords and advertisements ideas. Advertisers also determine the average monthly searches, keywords trends, bidding, competitions, etc. Keyword Planner helps you to filter the best keywords through its average monthly searches, competition type, and CPC rates. Google Ads Editor: It is a downloadable program that allows advertisers to edit and make the required changes in advertisements. It enables the advertisers to update their ads in offline mode. It comes with the Google Adwords that is free of cost and provides facility to view the ad performances. Reach Planner: It is a tool that relates to video advertisements. It enables advertisers to increase their video ads and forecast the internet searchers to reach their ads. It lets you choose your audience and then forecast a combination of related video ads to them. Advertisers can also view the results of their ads reaches, which is displayed on a reach curve. Adwords Express: Google Adwords developed this feature, especially for small businesses. Earlier it was known by the name of 'Google Boost'. It helps small businesses by automating the management of keywords as well as ad placements. Thus, reduce the difficulty of such management of ad campaigns. In the case of small businesses that do not have their websites for advertising, Adwords Express provides direct interaction with the customers to their Google place page. Advertisements related to placement-target: It is the feature of Google Adwords. It places your ads to the related websites, relevant for your advertisements via the content network. It came into existence in 2003 within the control panel of Google Adwords. Using the control panel, you place domain names, keywords, topics, and targeting preferences. Google then uses your stored details and preferences in making and setting the targets. Using this feature, an advertisement can take complete ad-block and avoid splitting it into two or more ads. It creates higher visibility for the advertiser. It does not provide any low CPC bid, and the minimum cost-per-thousands impressions bids are twenty-five cents (25 sents) for campaigns related to placement-targets. Excluding the IP Addresses: This feature provides the facility to the advertisers to exclude the specified IP addresses range where they do not want to display their ads. They can exclude the IP addresses up to a range of 500 per campaign. So, in this way, you can control and refine the ad placements based on location and language usage by excluding the IP addresses. Google Adwords Partner Certification: It is a certification program for those who wish to become an Adwords certified professionals. It is also known as Google Adwords Certification Program or Google Partners. Initially, such people needed to clear the Google Ads Fundamentals exam as well as other advanced Adwords exams. Advanced Adwords exam included: Video Advertising Search Advertising Google Analytics Display Advertising Mobile Advertising Shopping Advertising Later on, in April 2010, the exam requirements and the criteria of entries changed and thus replaced the Google Advertising Professionals. Now, this program certifies the consultants and contains one fundamental and five advanced exams to get certified. Also, from 16 January 2018, Google Partners moved to Google Academy for Ads. Remarketing: Using this feature, advertisers target those searchers who have visited their website previously. They display ads to such visitors and determine their behaviors with respect to their sites. By examining the visitor's behaviors, marketers create different groups or lists of the audience and display relevant advertisements to them. On 15 June, Google Adwords made it easy to analyze and create the remarketing lists known as RLSA (Remarketing Lists for Search) via Google Analytics. RLSA helps marketers to plan for traditional text search ads accordingly. Another approach of remarketing is dynamic remarketing that allows advertisers to display those product or service advertisements which they have already visited in their past time. This approach is mostly used by e-commerce websites where they target their past visitors again with the products or services ads in order to customize their experiences. Although remarketing is a mainstream practice, it should remain perceived. Customer Match Service: This feature of Google Adwords enables the advertisers to display tailored advertisements to the customers. These ads are based on the searches of the customers. For example, for shopping, most people do searches through brands. So, Google collects and shares such data with the advertisers. In respect to it, advertisers bids and create tailored ads for the customers. Google Ads Manager Account: Earlier, it was known as MCC or My Client Center. It is the feature of Adwords that provides the facility to manage multiple accounts just from one login and dashboard. Google Ads Manager account is generally used by advertising and marketing companies because they manage a large and heavy folder of their client's accounts. Smart Shopping: In 2018, Google Adwords enabled the feature of smart shopping. It is the shopping campaign that merges the features of Standard Shopping and the Display remarketing and uses it for the promotion of products that are listed in Google Merchant Center via automated bidding strategy. For using this campaign feature, the user needs to pass the conversion value to Adwords via website tags. You need to grow up your practices because Smart Shopping Campaign feature works with Google Machine Learning and serves responsive advertisements in Google Display Partner's websites. Smart Shopping Campaigns take priority over Dynamic Remarketing campaigns as well as standard shopping. Adwords Grants: It is a featured program that was launched in 2003. It is a program that serves thousands of charities and non-profits per month by crediting $10,000,e., 650,000 Rs per month in Google Ads credits. Until now, Adwords has served approximately 100,000 charities and non-profits globally. For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
