https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-network-mcq-part2
Computer Network MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) Part 2 - javatpoint
Computer Network MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) Part 2 - javatpoint ? Home Computer Fundamentals Computer Network Control System Java HTML CSS Selenium JavaScript jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Computer Network Tutorial Introduction Features Architecture Components Computer Network Types Topologies Transmission Modes Models Models OSI Model TCP/IP Model Physical Layer Digital Transmission Transmission Media Guided Media UnGuided Media Multiplexing Switching Switching Modes Switching Techniques Data Link layer Data Link layer Error Detection Error Correction Data Link Controls Network Layer Network Layer Network Addressing Routing Network Layer Protocols Routing Algorithm Routing Algorithm Distance Vector Link State Routing Transport Layer Transport Layer Transport Layer Protocols Application Layer Application Layer Client & Server Model Application Protocols DNS FTP Telnet SMTP SNMP HTTP Network Security Security Privacy Digital Signature PGP Misc What is Router OSI vs TCP/IP TCP vs UDP TCP TCP Port IPv4 vs IPv6 ARP Packet Format ARP Table Working of ARP FTP Client FTP Commands FTP Server I2P Protocol Sliding Window Protocol SNMP SPI Protocol IP ARP Commands ARP Request ARP - Address Resolution Protocol ARP and its types TCP Retransmission CAN Protocol HTTP Status Codes HTTP vs HTTPS RIP Protocol UDP Protocol ICMP Protocol MQTT Protocol OSPF Protocol Stop & Wait Protocol IMAP Protocol POP Protocol CIFS DAS DIMM iSCSI NAS NFS NVMe SAN BGP Go-Back-N ARQ RJ Cable Connection-Oriented vs Connectionless Service CDMA vs GSM What is MAC Address Modem vs Router Switch vs Router USB 2.0 vs USB 3.0 CSMA CA vs CSMA CD Multiple Access Protocols URI vs URL IMAP vs. POP3 SSH Meaning UTP vs STP MCQ Computer Network MCQ Computer Network MCQ Part2 Interview Questions Networking Questions next ? ? prev Computer Network MCQ Part 2 1) In which of the following switching methods, the message is divided into small packets? Message switching Packet switching Virtual switching None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Packet switching Explanation: In packet switching, the message is divided into small parts. These small parts of the message are called packets, and each packet has its own source and destination address. Each packet is transmitted forward in the network only on the basis of these addresses. 2) Which of the following switch methods creates a point-to-point physical connection between two or more computers? Message switching Packet switching Circuit switching None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Circuit switching Explanation: Circuit switching is a switching technique in which a point-to-point physical connection is made between two or more devices. For example: Telephone system, in which sender and receiver are connected by physical connection, such as wire. 3) What is the second name of the proxy server? Proxy tools Application proxy Application-level gateway All of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Application-level gateway Explanation: The proxy server is also known as the application-level gateway. It allows client computers to establish indirect network connections to other networks. 4) Which of the following servers allows LAN users to share data? Data server Point server File server Communication server Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) File server Explanation: A file server allows LAN users to share the data. It acts as a medium for data transfer. It uses the FTP protocol to transfer information and data. 5) What is the total vulnerable time value of pure Aloha? Tfr 1/2 Tfr 2 * Tfr 4 * Tfr Show Answer Workspace Answer: 2 * Tfr Explanation: Total vulnerable time of pure Aloha = 2 * Tfr 6) How many fields are in the SMDS packet? Two Three Four Five Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Three Explanation: SMDS packet consists of three fields: Destination address, Source address, and User data. In this, the destination and source addresses are 8 bytes, while the user data is up to 9188 bytes. 7) What is the maximum data transfer rate of the optical fiber wire? 50 kbps 1000 kbps 1000 Mbps None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 1000 Mbps Explanation: 1000 Mbps is the max data transfer rate for optical fiber cables. It is the fastest among the other kinds of cables like STP and coaxial cables. People are now using optical fiber cables instead of STP for LANs due to their fast data transfer capability. 8) POTS network works on the principle of ________ Telephone switching Proxy server File system Circuit system Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Circuit switching Explanation: POTS stands for Plain-old-telephone-service, and it works on the principle of circuit switching. In this, the analog signal is transmitted by copper wire. 9) Which of the following protocols is the bit-oriented protocol? SSL http HDLC All of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) HDLC Explanation: HDLC stands for High-level data link control. It is a set of protocols that are used to transmit information from one network to another. It is a bit-oriented protocol that supports both wireless and wired communication. 10) SLIP stands for _______ System line internet protocol Serial line internet protocol Signal line internet protocol Signal internet protocol Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Serial line internet protocol Explanation: SLIP stands for Serial-line-internet-protocol. It is an internet protocol through which a user accesses the internet using a computer modem. 11) The second port is used to ____________ in the two-port network. Input terminal Output terminal Signal terminal Bandwidth terminal Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Output terminal Explanation: A two-port network is an electrical network consisting of two ports. The first port is used for the input terminal, and the second pair is used for the output terminal. 12) Which of the following layers does the HTTP protocol work on? Physical layer Data-link layer Application layer None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Application layer Explanation: The HTTP application works on the application layer protocol. It is used to transmit messages across the World Wide Web. 13) Which of the following statement correct about the cipher in cryptography? It is a method for performing encryption and decryption It is used to establish the network connection It is a message event All of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) It is a method for performing encryption and decryption Explanation: A cipher is a method of implementing encryption and decryption of messages traveling in a network. It is used to increase the confidentiality of messages. 14) SONET stands for ______________. Signal Operation Network Synchronous Optical Network System Optical Network Signal Optical Network Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Synchronous Optical Network Explanation: SONet stands for Synchronous Optical Network. It is used in the telephone system. SONet is a technology that converts signals of different capacities into optical signals. 15) How many layers does the SONET contain? 2 layers 3 layers 4 layers 5 layers Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 4 layers Explanation: Sonet consists of 4 layers. Path layer ? Line layer ? Section layer ? Photonic layer 16) RAKE receiver designed for _____. Multipath fading Signals Data network Network connection Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Multipath fading Explanation: Rake receiver is a radio receiver. It is designed to counter the effects of multipath fading. It is most commonly used in CDMA and W-CDMA radio devices, such as wireless LAN devices and mobile phones. 17) What is the formula of high rate in zigzag code? J / (J * 1) -Z / (1 + J) Z * (1 + J) J / (J + 1) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) J / (J + 1) Explanation: Zigzag code is a type of linear error-correcting code. The formula of high code rate is = J / (J + 1), Where J is the number of Bits per segment. 18) What is the size of the sender window in the Go Back N (ARQ) protocol? 0 1 10 n Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) n Explanation: Go back N (ARQ) protocol is a data-link layer protocol that uses sliding window technology. The size of the sender window is N. For example: Go back 8, then the size of the sender window will be 8. 19) What is the efficiency of the Go back N (ARQ) protocol? N = N / (2a + 2a) N = N / (1 + 2a) N = N * (2a + 2a) N = N * (1 + 2a) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) N = N / (1 + 2a) Explanation: Go back N (ARQ) protocol is a data link layer protocol that uses sliding window technology. The efficiency of the Go back N ARQ protocol is: N = N / (1 + 2a), Where N is the sender window size. 20) What is the size of the destination port in the UDP protocol? 8 bits 16 bits 20 bits 32 bits Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 16 bits Explanation: The size of the destination port is 16 bits in UDP protocol, and it is used to identify the destination port of the data. 21) What network utility uses the time-To-Live (TTL) field in the IP header to elicit ICMP error messages? Ping Route Traceroute Ifconfig Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Traceroute Explanation: Traceroute works by sending packets of data with a reduced time-to-live (TTL) that specifies how many steps (hops) a packet can survive before returning. It finds the exact route taken by each step to arrive at the server and time. 22) A client of the DNS (Domain Name System) application is called _____. DNS server DNS Name DNS resolver DNS inquirer Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) DNS resolver Explanation: A DNS client is a device that is set up to send name resolution requests to the DNS server. It is also called the DNS resolver. 23) How many characters consist of the entire hostname? 511 characters 255 characters 127 characters 31 characters Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 255 characters Explanation: A hostname is a label that is assigned to a network-device. A total of 255 characters can be used in an entire hostname. However, each label must be between 1 and 63 characters. 24) During normal IP packet forwarding by a router, which of the following fields of the IP header is updated? Repeater Source address Destination address Checksum Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Checksum Explanation: When an IPv4 (Internet Protocol version 4) datagram sends an IP packet by a router, its header checksum needs to be updated as a result of reducing the TTL field. 25) Which of the following statements is correct about the DWDM? It can transmit data at very high speeds It can transmit data at very slow speeds DWSM stands for digital wave division multiplexing None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) It can transmit data at very high speeds Explanation: DWSM stands for Dense-Wavelength-Division-Multiplexing. It is a fiber optic transmission technique in which light wavelengths are used to transmit data. Therefore, it can transmit data at very high speeds. 26) MAC address is also called ______. Physical address Logical address Source address Destination address Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Physical address Explanation: Physical address is also known as MAC address. The physical address is unique because it cannot be changed. This address is stored in the main memory in the system. 27) Which of the following addresses is 32-bit? MAC address Virtual address Source address Destination address Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Virtual address Explanation: The virtual address is also called a logical address, and this address is stored in virtual memory in the system. The length of this address is 32-bit. For example, IP address: 190.10.134.76 28) EDI stands for ____. Electronic Data Interchange Electronic Digital Internet Electronic Digital Interchange Electronic Data Internet Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Electronic Data Interchange Explanation: EDI stands for Electronic-Data-Interchange. It is a communication system in which data is transferred electronically from one computer to another computer. 29) What is the maximum data transfer rate of the ISDN? 1024 Mbps 64 Mbps 64 kbps 1024 kbps Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 64 kbps Explanation: The ISDN supports data transfer rates up to 64 kbps. ISDN is a circuit-switched telephone network system. It is a set of communication standards for digital transmission (e.g., audio, video, and other network-related data). 30) ARPANET stands for _______. Advanced Recheck Projects Agency Internet Advanced Recheck Projects Agency Network Advanced Research Projects Agency Network Advanced Research Projects Agency Internet Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Advanced Research Projects Agency Network Explanation: ARPANET stands for Advanced-Research-Projects-Agency-Network. It was the world's first packet-switching network and the first in the world to use the TCP/IP model. 31) What is the size of the UDP header? 8 bytes 16 bytes 20 bytes 64 bytes Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 8 bytes Explanation: The size of the UDP header is 64 bits (64 bit means 8 bytes). It is a simple transport layer communication protocol. It has four parameters: Source port, Destination port, Length, and Checksum. 32) Which of the following protocols is the connection-less protocol? UDP TCP IP All of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) UDP Explanation: UDP is a connection-less protocol which means that when data transfer occurs, this protocol does not establish a connection between the sender and the receiver. 33) Wildcard domain name labels begin with a ______. . 0 @ * # Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) * Explanation: A wildcard record is a type of resource record that matches one or more subdomains. It is started with a "*". For example: *.javatpoint.com 34) What is the maximum length of the STP wire? 20 ft 50 ft 50 meters 100 meters Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 100 meters Explanation: STP is the full name Shielded twisted-pair. This cable is similar to UTP, but it has an extra mesh coating or metal foil, and all the wires are inside it. The maximum length of this wire is 100 meters. If the length is more than 100 meters, then this cable loses its signals. Therefore, this wire is more suitable for small networks such as LANs. 35) Which network is suitable for a building? WAN LAN MAN PAN Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) LAN Explanation: LAN network is used to connect computers in a small area such as school, office, residence, etc. It is less expensive and very secure. 36) ________ is a 2G mobile telecommunications based on the CDMA. IS-95 ISO 1990 IS-97 None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) IS-95 Explanation: The full name of IS-95 is interim standard 95. It is a second-generation mobile telecommunications standard based on CDMA (code division multiple access). It was developed by Qualcomm. 37) Which of the following statements is correct about IRC? It sends the messages in virtual time It is an application layer protocol It works on the proxy model All of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) It is an application layer protocol Explanation: IRC stands for Internet relay chat. It is an application layer protocol that is used to communicate over the internet as a text message. It sends messages in real-time. 38) Which of the following devices is not a networking device? Hub Switch Bridge None of the these Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) None of the these Explanation: Hub, Switch, and Bridge are networking devices. Therefore, option d is the correct answer. 39) Which of the following devices does not require power to forward the signals? Active hub Passive hub Repeater Bridge Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Passive hub Explanation: The passive hub sends the signal forward as it is, so it does not need a power supply. 40) How many pins does RJ-45 contain? Two Four Eight Ten Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Eight Explanation: The RJ-45 has eight pins of different colors. The four pins have solid colors, and the other four pins have light colors. Next TopicNetworking Interview Questions ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
