https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/privacy-policy/
Privacy Policy - GeeksforGeeks
Privacy Policy - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Privacy Policy Application Privacy Statement We Sanchhaya Education Pvt. Ltd., are registered and headquartered at BC 227, 2nd Floor, Matrix Business Tower, B4, Sector 132, Noida, UP-201301, hereinafter referred to as GeeksforGeeks. We also offer paid Courses managed by Sanchhaya Classes Pvt. Ltd. with registered office address B-142, Vishwash Park, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi, North Delhi, Delhi, India, 110059. At GeeksforGeeks, we value your trust & respect your privacy. This privacy statement (“Privacy Statement”) applies to the treatment of personally identifiable information submitted by, or otherwise obtained from, you in connection with the associated application (“Application”). The Application is provided by GeeksforGeeks (and may be provided by Geeksforgeeks on behalf of a GeeksforGeeks licensor or partner (“Application Partner”). By using or otherwise accessing the Application, you acknowledge that you accept the practices and policies outlined in this Privacy Statement. Information Collection and Use Log Files Like many other Web sites, GeeksforGeeks may receive and store any information you submit to the Application (or otherwise authorize us to obtain – such as, from (for example) your Facebook account). These files merely logs visitors to the site – usually a standard procedure for hosting companies and a part of hosting services’ analytics. The information inside the log files includes internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, Internet Service Provider (ISP), date/time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. This information is used to analyze trends, administer the site, track user’s movement around the site, and gather demographic information. IP addresses, and other such information are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable. Cookies and Web Beacons GeeksforGeeks uses cookies and browser’s local storage to store information about visitors’ preferences, to record user-specific information on which pages the site visitor accesses or visits, and to personalize or customize our web page content based upon visitors’ browser type or other information that the visitor sends via their browser. DoubleClick DART Cookie ? Google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on GeeksforGeeks. ? Google’s use of the DART cookie enables it to serve ads to our site’s visitors based upon their visit to GeeksforGeeks and other sites on the Internet. ? Users may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the Google ad and content network privacy policy at the following URL – http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.html Our Advertising Partners Google Yahoo! Publisher Network BuySell Ads AdPushup While each of these advertising partners has their own Privacy Policy for their site, an updated and hyperlinked resource is maintained here: Privacy Policies. You may consult this listing to find the privacy policy for each of the advertising partners of GeeksforGeeks These third-party ad servers or ad networks use technology in their respective advertisements and links that appear on GeeksforGeeks and which are sent directly to your browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this occurs. Other technologies (such as cookies, JavaScript, or Web Beacons) may also be used by our site’s third-party ad networks to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns and/or to personalize the advertising content that you see on the site. GeeksforGeeks has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers. We collect the following types of information from our users: GeeksforGeeks uses the information described in this Privacy Statement (i) internally, to analyze, develop and improve its products and services, and (ii) as set forth below in the “Personal Information Sharing” section below. Application Partner Treatment GeeksforGeeks may provide personal information to the applicable Application Partner. The Application Partner’s use of your personal information is subject to the Application Partner’s separate privacy policy – and not this Privacy Statement. The Application Partner’s privacy policy is linked to from within the Partner’s Application. Personal Information Sharing Personal information about our users is an integral part of our business. We neither rent nor sell your personal information to anyone (with the exception of sharing your information with an applicable Application Partner – see the “Application Partner Treatment” section above). We share your personal information only as described below. Application Partners: We will share your personal information with an applicable Application Partner (see the “Application Partner Treatment” section above). Agents: We employ other companies and people to perform tasks on our behalf and need to share your information with them to provide products or services to you. Unless we tell you differently, GeeksforGeeks’ agents do not have any right to use personal information we share with them beyond what is necessary to assist us. You hereby consent to our sharing of personal information for the above purposes. Business Transfers: In some cases, we may choose to buy or sell assets. In these types of transactions, customer information is typically one of the business assets that are transferred. Moreover, if GeeksforGeeks, or substantially all of its assets were acquired, or in the unlikely event that GeeksforGeeks goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of GeeksforGeeks may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy. Protection of GeeksforGeeks and Others: We may release personal information when we believe in good faith that release is necessary to comply with the law; enforce or apply our conditions of use and other agreements; or protect the rights, property, or safety of GeeksforGeeks, our employees, our users, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for fraud protection and credit risk reduction. With Your Consent: Except as set forth above, you will be notified when your personal information may be shared with third parties, and will be able to prevent the sharing of this information. Communications We may use your Personal Information to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials Third Party Applications The Application may permit you to link to other applications or websites. Such third party applications/websites are not under GeeksforGeeks’ control, and such links do not constitute an endorsement by GeeksforGeeks of those other applications/websites or the services offered through them. The privacy and security practices of such third party application/websites linked to the Application are not covered by this Privacy Statement, and GeeksforGeeks is not responsible for the privacy or security practices or the content of such websites. Children’s Information We believe it is important to provide added protection for children online. We encourage parents and guardians to spend time online with their children to observe, participate in and/or monitor and guide their online activity. Our site and the services available through GeeksforGeeks are not intended for children under the age of 13. GeeksforGeeks does not knowingly or specifically collect information about children under the age of 13 and believes that children of any age should get their parents’ consent before giving out any personal information. We encourage you to participate in your child’s web experience. What Personal Information can I Access? GeeksforGeeks allows you to access the following information about you for the purpose of viewing, and in certain situations, updating that information. This list may change in the event the Application changes. – Account and user profile information – User e-mail address, if applicable – Facebook profile information, if applicable – User preferences – Application specific data For EU and EEA Users in Compliance with GDPR: Analytics We use Google Analytics on our website to: Monitor site traffic and behavior flows of users Measure the effectiveness of on-site products Measure the effectiveness of off-site marketing campaigns and tactics Google has developed the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on; if you want to opt out of Google Analytics, you can download and install the add-on for your web browser here. Advertising We display Non-Personalized ads to our EAA users. Non-Personalized ads will use only contextual information, including coarse general (city-level) location, and content on the current site or app; targeting is not based on the profile or past behavior of a user. Mobile-Application We display Non-Personalized ads in our mobile app as well. We do not store or process any data regarding our users to target or profile them without their consent. We use Fabric for our reporting of Application crashes and Analytics. For more information on their Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, click here. In case any user wants to access their Right to erasure, please feel free to contact us by email at GeeksforGeeks. Online Privacy Policy Only This privacy policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website and regarding information shared and/or collected there. This policy does not apply to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website. Update This Privacy Policy was last updated on: Friday, May 25th, 2018. If you require any more information or have any questions about our privacy policy, please feel free to contact us by email at GeeksforGeeks. Should we update, amend or make any changes to our privacy policy, those changes will be posted here. Cookie Policy My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
