https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-soft-computing
What is soft computing - Javatpoint
What is soft computing - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev What is soft computing Soft computing is the reverse of hard (conventional) computing. It refers to a group of computational techniques that are based on artificial intelligence (AI) and natural selection. It provides cost-effective solutions to the complex real-life problems for which hard computing solution does not exist. Zadeh coined the term of soft computing in 1992. The objective of soft computing is to provide precise approximation and quick solutions for complex real-life problems. In simple terms, you can understand soft computing - an emerging approach that gives the amazing ability of the human mind. It can map a human mind and the human mind is a role model for soft computing. Note: Basically, soft computing is different from traditional/conventional computing and it deals with approximation models. Some characteristics of Soft computing Soft computing provides an approximate but precise solution for real-life problems. The algorithms of soft computing are adaptive, so the current process is not affected by any kind of change in the environment. The concept of soft computing is based on learning from experimental data. It means that soft computing does not require any mathematical model to solve the problem. Soft computing helps users to solve real-world problems by providing approximate results that conventional and analytical models cannot solve. It is based on Fuzzy logic, genetic algorithms, machine learning, ANN, and expert systems. Example Soft computing deals with the approximation model. Yoi will understand with the help of examples of how it deals with the approximation model. Let's consider a problem that actually does not have any solution via traditional computing, but soft computing gives the approximate solution. string1 = "xyz" and string2 = "xyw" 
Problem 1
Are string1 and string2 same?
Solution
No, the solution is simply No. It does not require any algorithm to analyze this.
 Let's modify the problem a bit. 
Problem 2
How much string1 and string2 are same?
Solution
Through conventional programming, either the answer is Yes or No. But these strings might be 80% similar according to soft computing.
 You have noticed that soft computing gave us the approximate solution. Applications of soft computing There are several applications of soft computing where it is used. Some of them are listed below: It is widely used in gaming products like Poker and Checker. In kitchen appliances, such as Microwave and Rice cooker. In most used home appliances - Washing Machine, Heater, Refrigerator, and AC as well. Apart from all these usages, it is also used in Robotics work (Emotional per Robot form). Image processing and Data compression are also popular applications of soft computing. Used for handwriting recognition. As we already said that, soft computing provides the solution to real-time problems and here you can see that. Besides these applications, there are many other applications of soft computing. Need of soft computing Sometimes, conventional computing or analytical models does not provide a solution to some real-world problems. In that case, we require other technique like soft computing to obtain an approximate solution. Hard computing is used for solving mathematical problems that need a precise answer. It fails to provide solutions for some real-life problems. Thereby for real-life problems whose precise solution does not exist, soft computing helps. When conventional mathematical and analytical models fail, soft computing helps, e.g., You can map even the human mind using soft computing. Analytical models can be used for solving mathematical problems and valid for ideal cases. But the real-world problems do not have an ideal case; these exist in a non-ideal environment. Soft computing is not only limited to theory; it also gives insights into real-life problems. Like all the above reasons, Soft computing helps to map the human mind, which cannot be possible with conventional mathematical and analytical models. Elements of soft computing Soft computing is viewed as a foundation component for an emerging field of conceptual intelligence. Fuzzy Logic (FL), Machine Learning (ML), Neural Network (NN), Probabilistic Reasoning (PR), and Evolutionary Computation (EC) are the supplements of soft computing. Also, these are techniques used by soft computing to resolve any complex problem. Any problems can be resolved effectively using these components. Following are three types of techniques used by soft computing: Fuzzy Logic Artificial Neural Network (ANN) Genetic Algorithms Fuzzy Logic (FL) Fuzzy logic is nothing but mathematical logic which tries to solve problems with an open and imprecise spectrum of data. It makes it easy to obtain an array of precise conclusions. Fuzzy logic is basically designed to achieve the best possible solution to complex problems from all the available information and input data. Fuzzy logics are considered as the best solution finders. Neural Network (ANN) Neural networks were developed in the 1950s, which helped soft computing to solve real-world problems, which a computer cannot do itself. We all know that a human brain can easily describe real-world conditions, but a computer cannot. An artificial neural network (ANN) emulates a network of neurons that makes a human brain (means a machine that can think like a human mind). Thereby the computer or a machine can learn things so that they can take decisions like the human brain. Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) are mutually connected with brain cells and created using regular computing programming. It is like as the human neural system. Genetic Algorithms (GA) Genetic algorithm is almost based on nature and take all inspirations from it. There is no genetic algorithm that is based on search-based algorithms, which find its roots in natural selection and the concept of genetics. In addition, a genetic algorithm is a subset of a large branch of computation. Soft computing vs hard computing Hard computing uses existing mathematical algorithms to solve certain problems. It provides a precise and exact solution of the problem. Any numerical problem is an example of hard computing. On the other hand, soft computing is a different approach than hard computing. In soft computing, we compute solutions to the existing complex problems. The result calculated or provided by soft computing are also not precise. They are imprecise and fuzzy in nature. Parameters Soft Computing Hard Computing Computation time Takes less computation time. Takes more computation time. Dependency It depends on approximation and dispositional. It is mainly based on binary logic and numerical systems. Computation type Parallel computation Sequential computation Result/Output Approximate result Exact and precise result Example Neural Networks, such as Madaline, Adaline, Art Networks. Any numerical problem or traditional methods of solving using personal computers. Next TopicTypes of Angles ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
