https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-transformer
Types of Transformer - Javatpoint
Types of Transformer - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Transformer The transformer is one of the oldest innovations in the electrical and electronics field and is now a widely used device in almost every electrical network circuitry. In general, most people know that transformers are huge heavy objects typically found in the corners of streets, causing random buzz noises and often spitting sparks. However, it is not the only type of transformer. We are reclaiming the benefits of transformers in many electrical devices, whether we realize it or not. Even our phone or laptop charger has a small transformer with an entirely different mechanism. Various transformers are used in electrical power systems for various purposes such as electrical power generation, distribution, transmission, and utilization. In this article, we are discussing all such major types. Before discussing the types of transformers, let us first briefly discuss the definition of a transformer: What is a Transformer? A transformer primarily refers to devices designed for the transmission of electrical energy at required voltage levels. The transmission current is usually an alternating current (AC). A transformer is mainly used between circuits when there is a need to increase or decrease the supply voltage without changing the current frequency. In other words, a transformer is usually a voltage control device designed primarily to transmit and distribute the alternating current. Transformers mainly operate on two principles, such as mutual induction and electromagnetic induction. The transformer's idea was first introduced in 1831 by Michael Faraday, later adopted by former scientists and scholars. The main purpose of designing transformers was to establish a balance between power generated at very high voltages and consumption at very low voltages in the target devices. Components of a Transformer When it comes to construction, knowledge of a transformer's basic components is the most essential. The major components of a transformer mainly include the bobbin, core, windings, and insulation agents: Bobbin The bobbin is the fundamental part of any transformer. It mainly provides a spool and allows us to wind the windings around it. It also helps in holding the core in a fixed position. It is typically composed of using a heat-resistant plastic material. Furthermore, it can have metal pins that can be used to solder the windings-ends if there is a need for mounting it to a PCB. Core The core is another essential part of the transformer and comes in different shapes and sizes depending on the requirements. It primarily provides support to the winding wrapped in the transformer. Additionally, the core helps to achieve a low reluctance path for magnetic flux flow. It is the magnetic properties of the core that define the electrical properties of the transformer. The core composition usually determines factors such as operating voltage, power, current, etc. Windings Windings refer to the set of wires wrapped over the transformer cores. Generally, the wire used in the construction is a solid, enameled copper wire. The copper wire is preferred over other wires because it is strong and thin, and therefore, leaves no unnecessary empty spaces due to plastic insulating sheaths. Moreover, the copper wires have higher conductivity which typically minimizes the losses. There are usually two types of windings in transformers, such as the primary winding (to input supply current) and the secondary winding (to take output current). Insulation Agents Insulation in transformers is as important as any other part because it mainly helps separate the wrapped windings from shorting the circuits. This eventually facilitates mutual induction. Insulation agents indirectly play a key role in influencing the stability and durability of transformers. There can be different insulation materials in transformers, such as insulating oil, insulating paper, insulating tape, wood-based lamination, etc. Types of Transformer Transformers are quite common in many sectors, such as distribution, power generation grids, electric energy consumption, and transmission. Therefore, different transformers are based on different categories; each type has a unique structure, construction method, functions, and applications. However, their types can be broadly classified based on the following categories: Based on the Voltage Levels Based on the Mediums used in Cores Based on Winding Arrangements Based on Usage Let us now understand each type in detail: Classification of Transformer based on Voltage Levels Transformers are designed in multiple types of construction. One such construction method includes how the coil's primary side's voltage level is converted to the secondary side. These transformers typically have no electrical connection between both sides, but the independent coils conduct the electricity by the electromagnetic flux. Based on the voltage range, transformers are mainly divided into the following three types: Step-Down Transformer The step-down transformers are mainly used to convert the primary voltage levels to the lower voltages across the secondary coil. That is the reason they are called step-down transformers. The conversion of voltages is made possible by changing the number of windings in both coils. The total number of windings in step-down transformers is higher on the primary side than the secondary side. These transformers are one of the basic requirements in the power section. These transformers are mostly used in power adapters and mobile chargers. Step-Up Transformer Step-up transformers are just the opposite of step-down transformers. Step-up transformers help convert the low primary voltage levels to the higher voltage levels across the secondary coils as the output; thus, the name is a step-up transformer. In step-up transformers, the total number of windings on the secondary side is higher than the primary side. These transformers are mainly used in applications where the low voltage is changed to a relatively higher voltage-for example, inverters, stabilizers, etc. Isolation Transformer Isolation transformers neither increase nor decrease the voltages from the primary side to the secondary side. The voltage remains the same on both sides. In isolation transformers, the number of windings in the primary and secondary sides is also the same. These transformers help isolate the voltages. More specifically, they help in canceling noise transfer from the primary side to the secondary side. Besides, they are also used for safety reasons. Classification of Transformer based on the Medium used in Cores The transformers mainly transmit the energy from the primary side to the secondary side by conducting electromagnetic flux via the core medium. There are different materials used as cores to achieve different flux densities. Based on the core material, transformers are mainly divided into the following types: Iron Core Transformer Iron core transformers are transformers in which the core material is iron. These transformers contain multiple soft iron plates wrapped in primary and secondary windings. Since iron has excellent magnetic and conductive properties, the iron core transformers have a high flux linkage. This further results in getting a higher efficiency. These transformers are one of the most commonly used transformers and heavier in weight. Ferrite Core Transformer Ferrite core transformers are constructed using a ferrite as a core material. Ferrite has a high magnetic permeability. These transformers are mainly used in high-frequency applications because they drastically reduce the losses in such applications-for example, SMPS (Switched Mode Power Supply, RF related applications, etc. Ferrite core transformers are primarily used in electronics instead of electrical applications. They are designed in various shapes and sizes to fulfill specific purposes. Toroidal Core Transformer Toroidal core transformers are transformers in which the core material is in a toroid shape. The cores can be made of either ferrite or iron. In simple words, toroids are simple rings or doughnut-shaped core material. The toroidal-shaped core is an efficient way for enhanced electrical performance. Furthermore, it also provides high inductance, while the leakage inductance is low. Apart from this, the windings are relatively short, which also decreases the transformers' overall weight. Air-Core Transformer As the name suggests, the air core transforms have no physical magnetic core, and the flux linkage occurs completely through the air. In these transformers, the windings (primary and secondary) are wrapped on a non-magnetic strip. The alternating current is given to the primary coil, which further generates an electromagnetic field around it. Later, the secondary coil comes inside this magnetic field. Therefore, the secondary coil is induced with a magnetic field that later helps to power the load. Air core transformers work based on the Faraday law of induction. These transformers are mainly useful for portable electronics. For example, they generally help in wireless charging. The primary coil is attached inside the charger, while the secondary coil is fixed inside the corresponding device. Classification of Transformer based on Winding Arrangements Based on the winding arrangements, transformers are mainly divided into the following type: Auto Winding Transformer While standard transformers have windings placed in a separate position, auto winding transformers have both windings connected in series. Also, a center tap node can be moved accordingly on the body of the coil winding. This movement ultimately helps to vary the secondary voltage or output voltage from the primary voltage. These transformers are mainly used in power distribution and transmission-based applications, requiring frequent changes in high voltage lines. Classification of Transformer based on Usage Many transformers are designed for specific purposes in both the electrical and electronics sectors. These are termed the dedicated transformers used as step-down or step-up transformers based on the usage. Based on the usage, transformers are mainly classified into two domains: the power domain and the electronics domain. Power Domain Transformers used in a power domain is constructed to deal with power generation, distribution, and measurement. Transformers are the core part of this domain and help accommodate safe power conversion and efficient power delivery to the end-users. Transformers can be indoor and outdoor, but most of them are outdoor. Some such transformers are discussed below: Power Transformer: Power transformers are huge and heavy. These transformers help in safely transmit the energy to the sub-stations and the public electricity supplies. They act as a bridge and are place between the power generator and primary distribution grids. Power transformers have high insulation levels, and therefore, they are best suited for high-voltage (typically higher than 33KV) based power-transfer applications. The primary concept of these transformers is to convert low-voltage high-current to high-voltage low-current. Measurement Transformer: Measurement transformers are usually called instrument transformers. These transformers act as a measuring instrument in the power domain. They typically help isolate primary power and convert voltages and currents to small amounts in secondary outputs. With these output measurements, the electrical quantities such as phase, voltage, and the current of the actual power line can also be measured. Distribution Transformer: Distribution transformers mainly distribute generated power from power generation plants to remote locations or end-users. These transformers are generally the step-down transformers and help convert the high-grid voltage to the voltage acceptable in corresponding remote locations. Then, the electrical energy is further distributed for industrial or domestic purposes. These transformers can be small or big based on the conversion capacity. Electronics Domain In electronics, some small-sized transformers can be fixed within the small devices. Also, various small miniature transformers are there mounted on PCB. Some such transformers in the electronics domain include the followings: Pulse Transformer: Pulse transformers are used to generate electrical pulses of constant amplitudes. These transformers are mainly mounted on digital circuits requiring pulses in an isolated environment. The pulse transformers help isolate primary pulses and distribute them across the secondary circuit or digital logic gates. Audio Output Transformer: Audio output transformers are widely used in audio-based applications that typically require impedance matching. These transformers may have multiple primary and secondary coils, which can be disassembled or tapped. Audio output transformers mainly help to balance amplifier circuits and their loads. Applications of Transformer Although transformers have a wide range of applications, some of the most common are listed below: In electrical power engineering, the transformers are widely used to transform electric power from the generated voltage of about 11kV to higher values, such as 132kV, 220kV, 400kV, and more. This eventually saves the costs of transferring huge amounts of power to distribution points in long distances. Also, it reduces the chances of power loss. At distribution points, the transformers also help decrease the extremely high voltage to safe voltage limits for general purposes in homes, offices, etc. In electric communication, a variety of applications are performed using circuit transformers. For instance, they help in an impedance transformation and allow the maximum possible amounts of power from the input circuits to output devices. Transformers are widely used in television and radio circuits as input transformers, interstate transformers, and output transformers. Here, transformers help to change the incoming mains voltage (usually approx. 240V or 110V) to the suitable voltage limit supported in the devices. Transformers are also widely used in instrumentation circuitry, telephone circuitry, control circuitry, etc. Next TopicDebugging ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
