https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/page/2/
GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks | Page 2
GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks | Page 2 Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Gblog Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies As the placement season is back, GeeksforGeeks is here to help you crack the interview. We have selected some most commonly asked and MUST DO… Read More Calculate ratio of area of a triangle inscribed in an Ellipse and the triangle formed by corresponding points on auxiliary circle Given two integers A and B representing the lengths of semi-major and semi-minor axes of an ellipse, the task is to calculate the ratio of… Read More Coordinate Geometry Geometric Mathematical Check if any point exists in a plane whose Manhattan distance is at most K from N given points Given two arrays A[] and B[] consisting of X and Y coordinates of N distinct points in a plane, and a positive integer K, the… Read More Geometric-Lines Time and Distance Geometric Mathematical Unformatted input/output operations In C++ Expert In this article, we will discuss the unformatted Input/Output operations In C++. Using objects cin and cout for the input and the output of data… Read More C++-Operator Overloading cpp-input-output cpp-operator cpp-operator-overloading Operators C++ C++ Programs C program to create a Rocket using Graphics In this article, we will discuss how to draw the Rocket using Graphics. Approach: Draw a straight line using the line() function that will act… Read More c-graphics computer-graphics C Language C Programs Logging in Node.js Node.js is a JavaScript runtime that’s built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine and its run-time environment includes everything which we’d like to execute a program… Read More Node.js-Basics Picked Node.js Web Technologies Working with forms using Express.js in Node.js Medium In this article, we will be working with forms using ExpressJS in NodeJS. Using server side programming in Node.js, we can create forms where we… Read More Express.js NodeJS-Questions Picked Node.js Web Technologies Why REST API is Important to Learn? API… Being a developer what comes to your mind first when you listen to this word… JSON, Endpoints, Postman, CRUD, Curl, HTTP, Status Code, Request,… Read More GBlog Web Technologies Quick Links Courses at GeeksforGeeks Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Internships at GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice Check if a path exists from a given cell to any boundary element of the Matrix with sum of elements not exceeding K Expert Given a matrix grid[][] of dimensions M * N, three integers X, Y, and K, the task is to check if there exists any path… Read More BFS Backtracking Game Theory Matrix Recursion Minimize length of a string by removing suffixes and prefixes of same characters Given a string S of length N consisting only of characters ‘a’, ‘b’, and ‘c’, the task is to minimize the length of the given… Read More prefix substring two-pointer-algorithm Greedy Strings Check if a string can be made palindromic by swapping pairs of characters from indices having unequal characters in a Binary String Given a string S and a binary string B, both of length N, the task is to check if the given string S can be… Read More binary-string frequency-counting Java-HashMap palindrome Hash Strings Convert an array into another by repeatedly removing the last element and placing it at any arbitrary index Given two arrays A[] and B[], both consisting of a permutation of first N natural numbers, the task is to count the minimum number of… Read More array-rearrange permutation subsequence Arrays Greedy Searching Minimize maximum array element possible by at most K splits on the given array Given an array arr[] consisting of N positive integers and a positive integer K, the task is to minimize the maximum element present in the… Read More array-rearrange Binary Search Arrays Mathematical Searching Qualcomm Interview Experience Hi everyone. Today I’m going to share Qualcomm interview experience for the role of Software Engineer. I hope it’ll surely help you to prepare well… Read More Marketing Qualcomm Interview Experiences IBM Interview Experience 2021 for Software Developer IBM Company conducts 3-4 rounds to select freshers as Software Developer in their organization. The first round is an Aptitude test, the second round is… Read More IBM IBM-interview-experience Marketing Interview Experiences Unthinkable Solutions Interview Experience | On-Campus 2020 Easy Eligibility: B.Tech. CSE, B.Tech. ECE, MCA, MCA FYIC, BCA %age Cut Off: No % criteria. Students with up to 3 backlogs can be a part.… Read More Marketing On-Campus Unthinkable Solutions Internship Interview Experiences Page 2 of 6,031«12345...102030...»Last » Quick Links Courses at GeeksforGeeks Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Internships at GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Sneak Peek to Geeks Summer Carnival – Pay Less, Learn More! February 1, 2021 100 Days of Code – A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced February 1, 2021 Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job – Complete Interview Preparation February 1, 2021 Recently Asked Interview Questions in Product Based Companies February 1, 2021 Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … February 1, 2021 What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE CS Notes according to GATE 2021 syllabus Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
