https://www.javatpoint.com/soft-computing-mcq
Soft Computing MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Soft Computing MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Soft Computing MCQs In this article, we will discuss the most commonly asked multiple-choice questions related to Soft Computing. The main purpose of writing this article is to target competitive exams and interviews. Generally, Soft Computing involves the basics of Fuzzy Logic, Neural Networks, and Genetic Algorithms. Here, we will try to cover all the frequently asked Soft Computing questions with the correct choice of answer among various options. 1) Which of the following is associated with fuzzy logic? Crisp set logic Many-valued logic Two-valued logic Binary set logic Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Many-valued logic Explanation: Since fuzzy logic can define the set membership with some specific value, it may have multiple set values. 2) The truth values of traditional set theory can be defined as _________ and that of fuzzy logic is termed as _________. Either 0 or 1, either 0 or 1. Between 0 & 1, either 0 or 1. Either 0 or 1, between 0 & 1. Between 0 & 1, between 0 & 1. Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Either 0 or 1, between 0 & 1. Explanation: A crisp set is usually defined by crisp boundaries containing the precise location of the set boundaries. However, a fuzzy set is defined by the indeterminate boundaries containing uncertainty about the set's boundaries. 3) A Fuzzy logic is an extension to the Crisp set, which handles the Partial Truth. True False Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) True. Explanation: None. 4) How many types of random variables are there in Fuzzy logic? 2 4 1 3 Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) 3 Explanation: There are three types of random variables, i.e., Boolean, discrete, and continuous variables. 5) Which of the following represents the values of set membership? Degree of truth Probabilities Discrete set Both a & b Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Degree of truth Explanation: Both probabilities and degree of truth range between 0 and 1. 6) The probability density function is represented by Continuous variable Discrete variable Probability distributions for Continuous variables Probability distributions Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Probability distributions for Continuous variables Explanation: None. 7) _________is used for probability theory sentences. Logic Extension of propositional logic Conditional logic None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Extension of propositional logic Explanation: The version of probability theory makes use of an extension of propositional logic for its sentences. 8) Which of the following fuzzy operators are utilized in fuzzy set theory? AND OR NOT EX-OR Show Answer Workspace Answer: a), b) and c) Explanation: In fuzzy logic, the AND, OR, and NOT operators represent the minimum, maximum, and complement. 9) What is the name of the operator in fuzzy set theory, which is found to be linguistic in nature? Lingual Variable Fuzz Variable Hedges None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Hedges Explanation: None. 10) Where can we use the Bayes rule? To increase the complexity. To decrease the complexity. To solve queries To answer the probabilistic query Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) To answer the probabilistic query Explanation: Based on the given evidence, the Bayes rule can be utilized to answer the probabilistic queries. 11) Which of the following is offered by the Bayesian network? Partial description of the domain A complete description of the domain A complete description of the problem None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Complete description of the domain Explanation: A Bayesian network refers to a probabilistic graphical model, which epitomizes a set of variables and its corresponding dependencies thru a directed acyclic graph (DAG). 12) _________ represents the fuzzy logic IF-THEN rules IF-THEN-ELSE rules Both a & b None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) IF-THEN rules Explanation: In fuzzy set theory, the fuzzy operators are defined on the fuzzy sets. When the fuzzy operators are anonymous, the fuzzy logic utilizes the IF-THEN rules. In general, rules are expressed as: IF variable IS property THEN action 13) Uncertainty can be represented by _________ Entropy Fuzzy logic Probability All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) All of the above Explanation: Entropy is the amount of uncertainty involved in data, which is represented by H(data). 14) Name the algorithms that acquire from complex environments to generalize, approximate and simplify solution logic. Ecorithms Fuzzy set Fuzzy Relational DB None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Fuzzy set Explanation: Rather than being associated with exponential growth, local structures are generally linked with linear growth in terms of complexity. 15) Which of the following condition can directly influence a variable by all the others? Fully connected Local connected Partially connected None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Fully Connected Explanation: None. 16) A perceptron can be defined as _________ A double layer auto-associative neural network A neural network with feedback An auto-associative neural network A single layer feed-forward neural network with pre-processing Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) A single layer feed-forward neural network with pre-processing Explanation: A perceptron is a single-layer neural network that consists of input values, weights, bias, net sum followed by an activation function. 17) What is meant by an auto-associative neural network? A neural network including feedback A neural network containing no loops A neural network having a single loop A single layer feed-forward neural network containing feedback Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) A neural network including feedback Explanation: Auto associative networks are yet another kind of feed-forward nets trained to estimate the identity matrix in between network inputs and outputs by incorporating backpropagation. 18) Which of the following is correct? I. In contrast to conventional computers, neural networks have much higher computational rates. II. Neural networks learn by example. III. Neural networks mimic the same way as that of the human brain All of the above (ii) and (iii) are true (i), (ii) and (iii) are true None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) All of the above Explanation: Neural networks can run multiple operations in parallel, which is why they have higher computational rates than conventional computers. Neural nets mimic the working of the human brain. The idea behind neural nets is not to be programmed but to learn by examples. 19) Which of the following is correct for the neural network? I. The training time is dependent on the size of the network II. Neural networks can be simulated on the conventional computers III. Artificial neurons are identical in operation to a biological one All of the above (ii) is true (i) and (ii) are true None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) (i) and (ii) are true Explanation: The training time depends on the network size; the more the number of neurons, the more would be the possible states. Neural networks can be simulated on a conventional computer, but neural networks' main advantage - parallel execution - is lost. Artificial neurons are not identical in operation to biological ones. 20) What are the advantages of neural networks over conventional computers? I. Neural networks learn from examples II. They are more fault-tolerant III. They are well suited for real-time operation due to their high computational rates (i) and (ii) are correct (i) and (iii) are correct Only (i) All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) All of the above Explanation: Since neural networks learn by example, they are more fault-tolerant than conventional computers because they always respond, and small changes in the input do not hamper the output. Neural networks encompass parallel architecture, so it is pretty easy to achieve high computational rates. 21) Backpropagation can be defined as _________ It is another name given to the curvy function in the perceptron. It is the transmission of errors back through the network to adjust the inputs. It is the transmission of error back through the network to allow weights to be adjusted so that the network can learn. None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) It is the transmission of error back through the network to allow weights to be adjusted so that the network can learn. Explanation: Backpropagation is an efficient approach used to compute loss function's stress with respect to the parameters of neural networks. In order to minimize the loss function, backpropagation is mainly used to tune the weights of deep neural networks. 22) Which of the following is not the promise of an artificial neural network? It can survive the failure of some nodes It can handle noise It can explain the result It has inherent parallelism Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) It can explain the result Explanation: The artificial neural networks fail to explain the results. 23) Having multiple perceptrons can solve the XOR problem satisfactorily because each perceptron can partition off a linear part of the space itself, and they can then combine their results. True - This works always, and these multiple perceptrons learn to classify even complex problems. False - Perceptrons are mathematically incapable of solving linearly inseparable functions, no matter what you do True - Perceptron can do this but are unable to learn to do it - they have to be explicitly hand-coded False - Just having a single perceptron is enough Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) True - Perceptron can do this but are unable to learn to do it - they have to be explicitly hand-coded Explanation: None 24) Based on _________ membership function can be used to solve empirical problems. Knowledge Learning Examples Experience Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) Experience Explanation: The membership function of a fuzzy set is a generalization of the indicator function for classical sets. 25) A 3-input neuron is trained to output a 0 when the input is 110 and a 1 when the input is 111. After generalization, the output will be 0, when and only when the input is: 000 or 110 or 011 or 101 000 or 010 or 110 or 100 100 or 111 or 101 or 001 010 or 100 or 110 or 101 Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) 000 or 010 or 110 or 100 Explanation: Before generalization, the truth table is as follows: Here, $ represents the don't know cases, and the output is random. After generalization, the truth table will be: 26) A 4-input neuron has weights 1, 2, 3, and 4. The transfer function is linear, with the constant of proportionality being equal to 2. The inputs are 4, 10, 5, and 20, respectively. The output will be: 76 238 123 119 Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) 238 Explanation: In order to find out the output, we multiply the weights with their respective inputs, add the results and then further multiply them with their transfer function. Thus, output= 2*(1*4 + 2*10 + 3*5 + 4*20) = 238 27) A neuro software can be defined as: A powerful and easy neural network A software that is used to analyze neurons Software utilized by a neurosurgeon A software aimed to assist experts in the real world Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) A powerful and easy neural network Explanation: None. 28) What is the name of the network, which includes backward links from the output to the inputs as well as the hidden layers? Perceptron Self-organizing maps Multi-layered perceptron Recurrent neural network Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) Recurrent Neural Network Explanation: A recurrent neural network is yet another kind of artificial neural network, where the output derived from the previous step is fed as an input to the current step. 29) Which of the following is true for unsupervised learning? Some specific output values are disclosed Some specific output values aren't disclosed No relevant inputs value is specified Both inputs as well outputs are specified Neither inputs nor outputs are given Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Some specific output values aren't disclosed Explanation: In unsupervised learning, the model learns itself from the data without having a predicted result. Either the data is not given with a target response variable (label), or none chooses to label a response. In general, it is mainly treated as a pre-processing step for supervised learning models. Here, the goal is to determine the patterns, deep insights, understand variation, find unknown subgroups (amongst the variables or observations), and so on in the data. 30) What is involved in inductive learning? Inconsistent Hypothesis Consistent Hypothesis Estimated Hypothesis Irregular Hypothesis Regular Hypothesis Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Consistent Hypothesis Explanation: Inductive learning is used to find a consistent hypothesis, which agrees with the examples. The difficulty of the task relies on the chosen representation. 31) Which of the following statement is correct? Not all formal languages are context-free All formal languages are context-free All formal languages are like natural language Natural languages are context-oriented free Natural language is normal Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Not all formal languages are context-free Explanation: Not all formal languages are context-free. 32) Which of the following is incorrect? The union and intersection of two context-free languages are context-free. The reverse of context-free language is context-free, but its complement does not need to be. Every regular language is context-free as it can be easily explained by regular grammar. The intersection of a context-free language and a regular language is always context-free. The intersection of two context-free languages is context-free. Show Answer Workspace Answer: e) The intersection of two context-free languages is context-free. Explanation: The union and concatenation of two context-free languages are always context-free, but the intersection need not be context-free. 33) Automated vehicle is an application of _________ Unsupervised learning Supervised learning Reinforcement learning Active learning Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Supervised learning Explanation: In an automatic vehicle, a set of input visions and corresponding actions are available for learners, so it can be concluded that it is an example of supervised learning. 34) _________ is not counted in different learning method. Analogy Memorization Introduction Deduction Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Introduction Explanation: Analogy, memorization, and deduction are involved in different learning methods. 35) Which of the following models are utilized for learning? Neural networks Decision trees Propositional and FOL rules All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) All of the above Explanation: Neural networks, Decision trees, Propositional and FOL rules are altogether utilized as a learning model. 36) Which of the following is the correct example of active learning? Dust Cleaning Machine News Recommender System Automated Vehicle None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) News Recommender System Explanation: Active learning is such a kind of learning, which involves the teachers. It enables the learner to ask relevant examples related to perception-action pairs that will further augment the performance. 37) Which of the following is termed exploratory learning? Active learning Supervised learning Reinforcement learning Unsupervised learning Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) Unsupervised learning Explanation: Exploratory learning can be defined as a teaching and learning approach that encourages the learner to study and scrutinize new material, regardless of being dependent on any supervision. 38) _________ helps in modifying the performance element, assisting in making a better decision. Learning element Performance element Changing element None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Learning element Explanation: Learning elements assist in making a better decision by modifying the performance element. 39) Which of the following is considered while determining the nature of the learning problem? Problem Feedback Environment All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Feedback Explanation: The feedback is utilized to determine the nature of the learning problem faced by the agent. 40) Which of the following is chosen among the multiple consistent hypotheses? Ockham razor Learning element Razor None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Ockham razor Explanation: Ockham razor prefers the simplest hypothesis consistent with the data intuitively. 41) Which of the following takes input as an object described by a set of attributes? Graph Decision graph Tree Decision tree Show Answer Workspace Answer: d) Decision tree Explanation: The decision tree takes input as an object described by a set of attributes followed by returning a decision. 42) A neural network can answer For Loop questions What-if questions If-The-Else Analysis questions None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) What-if questions Explanation: None 43) Feature of ANN in which ANN creates its own organization of representation of information it receives during learning time is Adaptive Learning What-if analysis Self-Organization Supervised learning Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Self-Organization Explanation: The term self-organization refers to how people unify their common behavior to form global order by interacting among themselves instead of interacting through external intervention and instruction. 44) In artificial neural network, interconnected processing elements are termed as _________ Weights Nodes or neurons Axon Soma Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Nodes or neurons Explanation: A neural network comprises several simple, highly interconnected processing elements that process data by its dynamic state response to external elements. 45) Each connection link in ANN is linked with ________ that contains statics about the input signal. Neurons Activation function Weights Bias Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Weights Explanation: Weights in artificial neural networks play an efficient role as they are responsible for transmuting the input data within the network's hidden layers. 46) Artificial neurons are capable enough to model original neurons networks similarly as they are found in the human brain True False Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) True Explanation: None. 47) Name the input function received by neurons, which is also known as the neuron's internal state. Weight Bias Activation or neuron's activity level None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Activation or neuron's activity level Explanation: None. 48) What is the name of the process that represents modified elements of the DNA? Selection Mutation Recombination None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Mutation Explanation: Mutation can be defined as a change in the DNA that is responsible for bringing about benefits, harm, or nothing. 49) Which of the following is the best representation of individual genes? Coding Conversion Encoding None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Encoding Explanation: Encoding is a process of transmuting phenotype space to genotype space. 50) What is the name of the operator that is functioned on the population? Recombination Reproduction Mutation None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Reproduction Explanation: A genetic algorithm initializes the population by utilizing random values followed by running each individual from the population through the fitness function. Then the fittest one gets selected among the population to reproduce by using the reproduction function. The process of evaluation and reproduction is repeated until a desired number of iterations have been passed. 51) Name the selection method that is found to be less noisy. Boltzmann solution Remainder solution Stochastic remainder solution None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Stochastic Remainder Solution Explanation: None. 52) In how many steps does a crossover operator proceed? 2 3 4 5 Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) 3 Explanation: In a genetic algorithm, the crossover can be entitled recombination, which is nothing but a genetic operator that associates the genetic information of two parents to produce a new offspring. 53) Which of the following best relate to reinforcement learning? Error based learning Backpropagation learning Output-based learning None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Output based learning Explanation: Reinforcement learning is another branch of machine learning that learns from the output errors and improves them in the subsequent iterations. 54) ________ helps in converting a given bit pattern into another bit pattern by using logical bit-wise operation. Masking Segregation Conversion Inversion Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Masking Explanation: None 55) The ________ causes all the bits in the first operand to shift to the left by the number of positions indicated by the second operand. Shift right Shift left Shift operator None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Shift left Explanation: None 56) Which of the following is not a specified method used for selecting the parents? Tournament Selection Steady-state Elitism Boltzmann selection Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Steady-state Explanation: None. 57) ________ deals with uncertainty problems with its own merits and demerits Neuro-fuzzy Neuro-genetic Fuzzy-genetic None Show Answer Workspace Answer: a) Neuro-fuzzy Explanation: Neuro-fuzzy refers to the amalgamation of neural networks and fuzzy logic in the field of artificial intelligence. It is nothing but a fuzzy system whose parameters learn through the learning algorithms acquired from the neural networks. 58) What does FAM stand for? Fuzzy Association Memory Fuzzy Associative Memory Fuzzy Assist Memory None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Fuzzy Associative Memory Explanation: Fuzzy associative memory is a kind of neural network that stores the associations of patterns. It recalls the stored patterns from the noisy inputs. 59) Which of the following exhibits non-linear functions to any desired degree of accuracy? Neuro-fuzzy Neuro-genetic Fuzzy-genetic None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: c) Fuzzy-genetic Explanation: Fuzzy-genetic can be identified as a system built with the help of genetic algorithms, assisting in imitating the process of natural evolution, which is necessary for identifying its parameter and structures. 60) Matrix crossover is also known as _________ One dimensional Two dimensional Three dimensional None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: b) Two dimensional Explanation: Matrix crossover initially selects three parents. Then each bit of the first parent is associated with that of the second parent. If both are found to be similar, then the bit is taken for the offspring, else the third parent's bit is considered for the offspring. Next TopicProgram to calculate Volume of Cone ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
