https://www.javatpoint.com/fat32
FAT32 | Definition of FAT32 - Javatpoint
FAT32 | Definition of FAT32 - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev FAT32 | Definition of FAT32 Whenever we try to format our hard disk or pen-drive, our computer shows three options that are FAT32, NTFS, or exFAT. These options are the types of file systems used in Windows to store and manage the data in an organized way. In this topic, we will explore the FAT32, its uses, and how it can be differentiated from other file systems? But before starting, let's first understand the File system. What is File System? A file system is a way to manage and store files in a computer or a storage device. With the help of a file system, we can easily access a folder, a file, or data from any location at any time. Without a file system, there would be a huge amount of data without any end and start. So, data is divided into pieces and stored in the form of groups; each group is called a File. The way or logic used to manage each file is called as "File System." File systems can be of various types, and each one has a different structure, logic, and security to store the files. In Windows OS, some of the popular file systems are FAT32, NTFS, and exFAT. Among these three, FAT32 is the oldest file system, and NTFS is the most commonly used file system in new versions of Windows. What is FAT32? FAT stands for File Allocation Table, which is the simplistic file system supported by Windows Operating System. It is commonly used with floppy disks, flash drives, and embedded devices. However, it is no longer the default file system for Microsoft Windows computers. The FAT file system has different variants that vary as per increase in disk drive capacity, and these variants are FAT12, FAT16, and FAT32. The FAT32 file system is commonly used in some older versions of Windows and not in the latest version. It is the updated version of the FAT16 file system, which is supported by Windows 95 OSR2, Windows 98, and Windows Me. The FAT32 supports the minimum cluster size of 4 KB and hard disk size greater than 2 Gigabytes. The FAT32 file system was developed by Microsoft in the year 1996. It was then used in MS-DOS7.1 and Windows 95 OSR2. It was designed to overcome the volume size limitations of FAT16. Note: FAT32 file system is not supported by Microsoft Windows NT 4.0. Features of FAT32 FAT32 has the following features that overcome the issues in previous versions of File systems: It can support drive sizes up-to 2 terabytes. It is space-efficient because it uses smaller clusters, which provides efficient use of available disk space compared to FAT16 devices. It does not contain any limit for the number of root folder entries on the drive. The root folder is a simple cluster chain that can be placed anywhere within the drive. The dynamic resizing of FAT32 partitions is possible. It contains a robust nature because, in this, the folder can be relocated, and it can use the backup copy of the FAT instead of the default copy. Advantages of FAT32 The FAT32 file system is compatible with various devices such as smartphones, digital cameras, gaming consoles, USB drives, etc. FAT32 uses only a small disk space for large partitions because the minimum cluster size of FAT32 always remains 4KB for partitions under 8GB. Disadvantages of FAT32 In FAT32, the maximum file size is about 4 GB only. It can work with partitions with a maximum size of up to 8 TB. If the user formats the drive with FAT32, data may be lost if a power loss occurs during formatting. It does not include any built-in file compression feature. It does not have any built-in security or encryption technique, and to encrypt files, we need to use third-party tools. It may be slower than FAT16 as per the disk size. Enhancements in FAT32 compared to FAT16. Since FAT32 uses a smaller cluster, hence it can use space more efficiently compared to FAT16. FAT32 is much stable and reliable than FAT16. FAT 32 can relocate the root folder, and it uses a backup of FAT, not the default copy. FAT 32 is much flexible because it has a normal cluster chain, so it can be at any place of the driver, which was one of the limitations of FAT16. Where is FAT32 used? FAT32 is no longer supported on Windows NT 4.0 internal hard drives, but it is still being used in various removable media devices such as USB sticks, memory cards, and external drives. In these devices, we don't need extensive filesystem features; we just need a simple and universally supported format, which is FAT32. It is also compatible with different operating systems, including Windows, Mac, Linux, or Android. Differences between FAT32, NTFS, and exFAT FAT32 NTFS exFAT It is abbreviated as File Allocation Table32. It is abbreviated as New Technology File System. It is abbreviated as Extended File Allocation Table. FAT32 is the oldest file system, which was released in the year 1996 to replace the FAT16 files system. NTFS is the modern or latest file system, used as the default file system in Windows. It is the newer File system and introduced in the year 2006 by Microsoft. No encryption is provided in FAT32. Encryption is provided in NTFS. Encryption is not provided in exFAT. The performance is good. The performance is better than FAT32. The performance is High. The accessing speed is less compared to NTFS. The accessing speed is more compared to FAT32. The accessing speed is less compared to NTFS. There is no provision for file compression. It supports file compression. It also does not support File Compression. It supports a maximum file size of 4 GB. It supports a maximum file size of 16TB. It supports a maximum file size of up to 16EB(16 ExaByte). It is compatible with the old version of the Windows Operating system, such as Win 95/98/2K/2K3/XP. It is compatible with the later version of the Windows Operating system, such as NT/2K/XP/Vista/7. It is compatible with all versions of Windows and the latest version of MAC OS. It is best suitable for removable storage devices with a maximum file size of 8TB. It is best suitable for the windows system and internal drives of windows. It is best suitable for flash drives. It does not have any built-in security. It contains a built-in security feature. It also contains a built-in security feature. Next TopicCMOS ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
