https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sneak-peek-to-geeks-summer-carnival-pay-less-learn-more/
Sneak Peek to Geeks Summer Carnival - Pay Less, Learn More! - GeeksforGeeks
Sneak Peek to Geeks Summer Carnival - Pay Less, Learn More! - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Socket Programming in C/C++ GET and POST requests using Python Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Fast I/O for Competitive Programming 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Working with csv files in Python Types of Software Testing Working with PDF files in Python OOPs | Object Oriented Design Technical Scripter Event 2020 By GeeksforGeeks XML parsing in Python Difference between FAT32, exFAT, and NTFS File System Supervised and Unsupervised learning Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid 30 Days to Form a New Habit of Coding – Are You In? Frontend vs Backend GATE CS 2021 (Revised) Syllabus Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Getting started with Machine Learning Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 Sneak Peek to Geeks Summer Carnival – Pay Less, Learn More! BREAKING NEWS: Geeks Summer Carnival is on the way…!!!! Pretty much sure, your excitement level would’ve gone to the next level after hearing this. And why not, Geeks Summer Carnival is the biggest virtual fun festival for all the tech enthusiasts where they get a chance to showcase their programming skills, participate in various coding & fun-carnival-themed events, get GFG premium courses at the most affordable prices, and yes, win some astonishing prizes too. And this time, to make things more surprising for you – we’re coming up with a Geeks Summer Carnival Pre-Launch event before the real celebration. Now, what’s this?? Okay, let us tell you – though the Geeks Summer Carnival is arriving on April 12, 2021, before that we have a pre-launch event for you where you will get a chance to make GSC 2021 a more entertaining, enriching, and profitable event for yourself (We really mean it!!) What will be in this Geeks Summer Carnival Pre-Launch Event…?? In this pre-launch event – you would be able to get more value out of your money. If you’re wondering how to do this, let us tell you in detail: The pre-launch event will begin on March 22, 2021, and will end on April 10, 2021, giving you a chance to pay less and learn more. Now, users who buy coupons during this period can get them redeemed at a higher value during GSC, and earn gifts too. Get the learning power of INR 800 on purchasing a coupon worth INR 500 i.e., you would be able to buy courses, test series, or anything else at GeeksforGeeks for a total worth of INR 800. You will get a complimentary GFG mask also. Get the learning power of INR 2500 on purchasing a coupon worth INR 1500 i.e., you would be able to buy courses, test series, or anything else at GeeksforGeeks for a total worth of INR 2500. You will get a complimentary GFG GSC Special Edition T-shirt also. Get the learning power of INR 4500 on purchasing a coupon worth INR 2500 i.e., you would be able to buy courses, test series, or anything else at GeeksforGeeks for a total worth of INR 4500. You will get a complimentary GFG GSC Special Edition T-shirt also. Get the learning power of INR 8000 on purchasing a coupon worth INR 5000 i.e., you would be able to buy courses, test series, or anything else at GeeksforGeeks for a total worth of INR 8000. You will get a complimentary GFG Mask and GSC Special Edition T-shirt also. You need to know that these coupons could only be redeemed during Geeks Summer Carnival and the user shall receive his/her voucher on 11th April. And beginning 12th April, Geeks Summer Carnival will provide you with endless fun and learnings. That too without stepping out of the house – just from the comfort of your couch. Besides, we can make a bet that this year, Geeks Summer Carnival is going to be way more exciting with more fun and thrilling compared to last year. So, get ready for the Geeks Summer Carnival 2021 but before that, enjoy and take advantage of the Pre-Launch Event with Pay Less and Learn More Days!! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Next last_page Newgen Interview Experience for Software Developer (On-Campus 2021) Recommended Articles Page : Geeks Summer Carnival - A Virtual Fun Festival For Coders 05, Apr 20 Printing "GEEKS FOR GEEKS" In Brainfuck 14, Apr 17 Difference Between Pay Per Click and Search Engine Optimization 17, May 20 Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks 06, Dec 19 7 Must-Watch Web Shows for Tech Geeks 27, Nov 20 Geeks Classes - Live Online Classes on DSA 04, Mar 21 Google Summer of Code Preparation 06, Sep 18 Cracking Google Summer of Code 101 26, Oct 18 How to Prepare For GSoC (Google Summer of Code) - A Complete Guide 18, Nov 19 How to learn any technology inside out? 16, Sep 15 Programming languages one should learn in 2018 12, Dec 17 Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library 17, Feb 17 Multiclass classification using scikit-learn 20, Jul 17 Which language should you learn first if you want to make an app? 11, Oct 18 10 reasons to learn Python in 2019 05, Apr 19 Top 10 Reasons to Learn C++ 26, Apr 19 Top Android Development Frameworks to Learn in 2019 23, Jul 19 Best Books to Learn Python for Beginners and Experts in 2019 25, Sep 19 12 Reasons Why You Should Learn Python in 2019 23, Sep 19 7 Tips and Tricks to Learn Programming Faster 14, Aug 19 Why Should I Learn Coding? 23, Aug 19 Best Books to Learn Front-End Web Development 02, Sep 19 Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 11, Oct 19 Best Books To Learn Machine Learning For Beginners And Experts 25, Nov 19 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GFG-Sale GFG-Update GBlog Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in GBlog How To Prepare For InfyTQ (Infosys Certification Exam)? Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top 10 Python Developers Skills That You Must Know How Git Version Control Works? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? More related articles in GBlog Introduction to Hill Climbing | Artificial Intelligence Downloading files from web using Python Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Introduction of Programming Paradigms How to include graphics.h in CodeBlocks? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
