https://www.javatpoint.com/wine-linux
Wine Linux - javatpoint
Wine Linux - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Wine Linux In this tutorial, we will learn what Wine is and how it works, how to download wine in Linux, and how we can use wine. Introduction Basically, Wine is a sort of software, or we can specifically say that it is a type of open-source software. It is available for everyone that means anyone can download it and use it without spending a penny. It can be considered as one of the most important softwares that we may need, specifically, if we're a Linux user, as it allows us to run windows applications on several Linux and UNIX based operating systems (or other POSIX compliant operating systems). In simple words, we can say that if we are using a Linux or Unix-based operating system and we need to run some Windows applications for a certain task or just for entertainment. One can do so by installing the Wine Software. Wine Software allows it users to run the various windows application on the Linux based operating system without requiring any other additional software like a virtual machine. All we need is to install the Wine software only because, With Wine's help, we never need to install windows on wer system, which a time taking process (or using a virtual box). It may be quite possible that many users may think it is also an emulator like several other emulators available on the internet. But we are not right here because it cannot be considered as an emulator. Instead, it instantly translates Windows API calls into POSIX calls and eliminates the performance and memory penalty of other methods, and allows we to cleanly integrate Windows applications into wer desktop. Let's understand how to use it, but before knowing how to use Wine, let's take a look at how to get Wine for wer Linux operating system. How to download Wine in Linux operating system? To download Wine software in Linux operating system, we can follow the given instruction given below: Before installing the Wine software, we should need to know that our system is installed on 32 bits or 64 bits because it will help us choose the correct Wine version for our Operating System. In case we are not sure about it, we can use the following given command: Command: 
lscpu
 Once we execute the above-given command in the terminal, it will automatically display all required information about our system, as shown in the output: Output Step2. Installing Wine software using Ubuntu Repository To install the Wine software seamlessly, we will recommend installing Wine using the standard Ubuntu Repository. Through this way, we can have a more stable and reliable version on our computer. Type the following given command in the terminal and press enter: Command 
sudo apt install wine64
 Output As we can see in the above-given output, it can ask us to enter the root user password, so enter the password to continue. While installing the Wine, we will be prompted with the y/n option, so type "y" and press enter to continue the installation process: After this, it may take some time to install the Wine on the system, which is normal. Once the installation process gets completed, exit out the terminal using the given command. Command: 
Exit
 Once we exit out the terminal, the Wine software is all set and ready to use. If our system is installed on 64 bit, the process of installing Wine is not so different. We just need to make a slight change in one command, and the entire process will be the same. Step3. Install Wine on 64 bit's system Open the terminal and type the following given command: 
sudo apt install wine64
 Except for this change in one command, the entire process is exactly the same as shown above. Now, to verify the installation of Wine software is successfully completed or not, we can use the following command: 
wine --version
 Output How to use the Wine? After successfully downloading and installing the Wine, let us see how to use this for running window applications. All we need is the .exe file of the desired window application that we want to run. In the given image, we can see that we have an .exe file of Notepad++, which is a window's application. To run it on our Linux operating system with the help of Wine follows the given instructions carefully: Step1. First of all, open the terminal by pressing Ctrl+Alt+T on the keyboard. Step2. Once the terminal gets open, navigate to the folder (or directory) where we have ".exe file." As we can see in our case, our .exe file is located on the desktop. Step3. Type the following command to install windows application in our Ubuntu operating system. Command: 
Wine "Our window application name"
 Note: While using the above command, we have to make sure that we have provided the exact name (or correct name); otherwise, this command will not work. Output Once we press enter after typing the above command, the installation process of Notepad++ will be started: Step4. Now select the preferred language and click on "Ok," as shown below: Step5. Click on the "Next >" button. Step6. Click on the "I Agree" button" Step7. If we want to install application to a specific location, here we can provide the path or the location where we want to install it. Or we can just click on "Next >" as shown below: Step8. Here, check the components we want to install and Click on "Next >" to continue as shown below: Step9. Now, check the option labeled as "Create Shortcut on Desktop" if we wish to and click on "Install": Step10. We may have to wait for some time until the installation process is complete Step11. Once the installation process gets completed, we will get an output something like as given below: Step12. Now click to check the "Run Notepad++ v79.3" if we want to run it now. Otherwise, just click on the finish button. Step13. We can verify that Notepad++ is successfully installed by simply running it: We hope this tutorial will help you to run your Windows application on any Linux-based operating system without forcing you to change your current Operating system. Next TopicLinux Commands to Check Disk Space ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
