https://www.javatpoint.com/least-common-denominator
Least common denominator - Javatpoint
Least common denominator - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Least common denominator The least common denominator is also called as Lowest common denominator. It is abbreviated as LCD. In a fraction, the bottom number is said to be a denominator. Fractions are the number written in the form of p/q, where p is the numerator and q is the denominator. It can be defined as the smallest number, which is a common denominator of a given set of fractions. During the addition or subtraction of fractions, we generally required the same or common denominators. But if they are different, we have to find the LCD of fractions before adding or subtracting them. The least common denominator is the LCM of two numbers. It is generally used when we add, subtract, or compare the fractions. Least common denominator is required because we cannot add fractions with different denominators. Let's try to add the following two fractions: 2/9 + 3/5 It is difficult to add them because the denominators are not same. So, we have to find a common number to simplify it. To calculate the LCD of the fractions, we have to find the LCM (least common multiple) of their denominators. There are two methods to find the LCD. Now, we will see both of the ways to calculate the LCD of fractions. Method 1 It is a very lengthy method, so it is not usually used. Follow the steps given below to find the LCM using multiples of numbers. List all the multiple of each number until the first common multiple is found. Pick the smallest multiple that is common in all the given numbers. Let's understand this method by using an example. Suppose we have to find the LCD of fractions that are 1/3 and 1/6. As we can see, the denominators of the fractions are 3 and 6. Now, we have to write some multiples of both denominators. The multiples of 3 and 6 are - Multiples of 3: 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, …. Multiples of 6: 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, …… We can see the common multiples of both numbers are 6, 12, 18, ….. The least multiple among these multiples is 6. So, the least common denominator, or we can say the lowest common denominator of fractions 1/3 and 1/6, is 6. Method 2 It is another method of finding the least common denominator of two fractions. Here, we are showing some steps of calculating the least common denominator - First, we have to count the number of times a prime factor appears in each of the factorizations. Then we have to take the largest count for each prime number. Then write down that prime number as many times as we have counted it in the second step. The LCD is the product of all prime numbers written down. We will also understand it with an example. Suppose the two fractions are 1/8 and 7/12. The denominators of both fractions are 8 and 12. We have to calculate their prime factorization. The prime factorization of both denominators is - 8 = 2 x 2 x 2 12 = 2 x 2 x 3 Prime number 2 is occurring three times in 8, and prime number 3 is occurring one time in 12. Their product is: 2 x 2 x 2 x 3 = 24. So, the LCD of fractions 1/8 and 7/12 is 24. Let's see some questions of finding the least common denominator. Ques - 1 Find the LCD of 3/4 and 9/10. Ans - Here, 4 and 10 are the denominators of the fractions given in the question. The multiples of the denominators are: 4 = 2 x 2 10 = 2 x 5 So, the least common denominator of 3/4 and 9/10 is 2 x 2 x 5 = 20 Ques - 2 Find the LCD of 5/6 and 10/11. Ans - Here, 6 and 11 are the denominators of the fractions given in the question. The multiples of the denominators are: 5 = 5 11 = 11 So, the least common denominator of 5/6 and 10/11 is 5 x 11 = 55 Ques - 3 What is the least common denominator of 3/14 and 2/63? Ans - Here, 14 and 63 are the denominators of the fractions given in the question. The multiples of the denominators are: 14 = 2 x 7 63 = 3 x 3 x 7 So, the least common denominator of 3/14 and 2/63 is 2 x 3 x 3 x 7 = 126 Ques - 4 What is the lowest common denominator of 8/25 and 23/100? Ans - Here, 25 and 100 are the denominators of the fractions given in the question. The multiples of the denominators are: 25 = 5 x 5 100 = 2 x 2 x 5 x 5 So, the least common denominator of 8/25 and 23/100 is 2 x 2 x 5 x 5 = 100. Ques - 5 What is the result of 2/15 + 3/10? Ans - Here, 15 and 10 are the denominators of the fractions given in the question. The multiples of the denominators are: 15 = 3 x 5 10 = 2 x 5 So, the least common denominator of 2/15, 3/10 is 2 x 3 x 5 = 30. Then, we will add both fractions using the common denominator 30. For this, first, we change the given fractions into equivalent fractions using the denominator 30. 2/15 = 2 x 2/15 x 2 = 4/30 3/10 = 3 x 3/10 x 3 = 9/30 So, 2/15 + 3/10 = 4/30 + 9/30 = 13/30. Ques - 6 What is the lowest common denominator of 1½, 3, 3/8, 1, and 5/6? Ans - In the given question, there is an integer and an improper fraction. 1½ can also be written as 3/2, and 3 can be written as 3/1. Now, the fractions are 3/2, 3/1, 3/8, and 5/6. The denominators of the given fractions are 2, 8 and 6. The multiples of the denominators are: 2 = 2 8 = 2 x 2 x 2 6 = 2 x 3 LCD = 2 x 2 x 2 x 3 = 24 So, the least common denominator of 3/2, 3, 3/8, and 5/6 is 24. Next TopicLogical operators ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
