https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-volcanoes
Types of Volcanoes - Javatpoint
Types of Volcanoes - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Volcanoes Volcanoes have existed on Earth for decades. It is believed that they caused a disaster of the Permian mass extinction around 250 million years ago. Volcanoes are not only present on Earth; their existence is also noticed on other worlds or planets. They are extremely active on Jupiter. Even, it is also believed that the moon and Mars had volcanoes that have long been dormant. In general, we know that volcanoes are some specific types of mountains that spit some very hot materials. There are various types of volcanoes, and researchers are constantly learning more about them. This article discusses the different types of volcanoes and their basic characteristics. This will also help us differentiate different volcanoes. Before discussing the various volcano types, let us first briefly overview volcanoes and how they are formed. What are Volcanoes? By definition, a volcano refers to an opening on Earth's surface from where molten rocks originate beneath the surface. More specifically, the Earth's surface is a combination of several tectonic plates, spreading apart, crunching with one another, or sliding beside one another. Volcanoes are usually formed at the fault lines between these tectonic plates. The molten rock and gases escape through a vent on the Earth. Volcanic mountain openings typically meet a pool of molten rocks below the Earth's surface through a vent. Volcanoes typically have different sizes, heights, and slope steepness. Some volcanoes are tall cone-shaped mountains, while some are just cracks on the ground. The different characteristics of volcanoes typically depend on the composition of their molten rocks. Volcanic eruptions usually produce lateral eruptions, hot ash or lava, mudslides, etc. Besides, many volcanic activities can form from erupted magma. Such activities can sometimes be responsible for various distinctive landforms. Let's take a quick overview of how volcanoes form on Earth: How are Volcanoes formed? There is a rigid rock body, known as the mantle, and it is found deep beneath the Earth. This hard rock is usually located between the molten iron core and a thin layer on the surface. Extremely high temperatures and excess amounts of pressure apply force on these solid rocks to melt and convert to liquid rock, called magma. When the mantle's rocks melt due to hot conditions, the magma moves up towards the Erath's surface through the crust, and various pent-up gases are released. This eventually results in volcanoes. Magma from volcanoes usually rises through dense rock layers and reaches the surface. Once the magma reaches the surface, it is referred to as lava. Note: The biggest volcano on the Earth is named Mauna Loa, which comprises around 75,000 cubic kilometers of materials. Additionally, the tallest volcano on Earth is Mauna Kea, which is around 4,205 meters above sea level and around 9,000 meters from the seafloor. They both are part of volcanoes making up the Big Island of Hawaii. Types of Volcanoes Different types of volcanoes are formed based on the magma's stickiness or viscosity, the amounts and presence of gases in magma, and the method following which the magma reaches the surface. Each type of volcano usually varies in volcanic materials it produces, its shape, structure, size, and effects. Volcanoes are typically grouped into four major types, such as: Cinder Cone Composite Shield Lava Domes Let us now discuss each volcano type in detail: Cinder Cone Volcanoes Cinder cone volcanoes, more often referred to as the spatter cones or scoria cones volcanoes, are the most basic and simplest types of volcanoes. These volcanoes are usually formed in a cone-shaped structure. They start to form when small particles and blobs of lava eject from a single volcanic vent. The lava is charged up in the air, which then breaks apart into small pieces. Such small pieces do not go far and rain down around the vent as cinders. The collected cinders then form an oval cone or circular shape structure around the vent. Moreover, the cinder cones usually have a bowl-shaped crater (or a pit) at the summit. Since they are formed with loose cinder particles, they are not so strong and can be erased easily and quickly. Apart from this, cinder cone volcanoes are relatively small. They have a height of around 300 feet and do not typically rise more than 1200 feet. However, their steep sides can grow about 1,000 feet around their surroundings. This typically depends on the composition of lava ejected from the corresponding volcano. Cinder cone volcanoes can form in a few months or a few years. Besides, they usually erupt once. They can be formed as single volcanoes or may occur as secondary volcanoes (called parasitic cones) or flank vents on larger volcanoes' surrounding areas. Composite Volcanoes Composite volcanoes are commonly termed stratovolcanoes. These volcanoes are made of multiple layers of different materials such as high-viscosity lava flow, ash, and stone blocks. The viscosity of lava indicates that these volcanoes typically explode during the eruption. They are much higher than cinder cone volcanoes and may rise to 8,000 feet. Composite volcanoes are formed in conical mountains containing lava flows and other ejecta in their alternating layers. In particular, composite volcanoes are formed with cinders, ash, and lava. Cinders and ash randomly pile on top of one another, allowing the lava to flow on the mixed ash top. Once the composition cools down, it hardens. The same process repeatedly occurs, forming steep-sided volcanos or composite volcanos. Furthermore, they make a structure with underground conduits. This means that they usually have a crater at the summit with a central vent or contain a group of vents. Therefore, when they explode, they may blow out from the crater and the cone's sides. Shield Volcanoes Shield volcanoes have received their name from their unique shape. They typically have a bowl-shape or a shield in the top middle with long gentle slopes formed up by basaltic lava flows. These volcanoes erupt very thin lava that extends in all directions from a middle vent. Although these volcanoes generally have no steeps, they are relatively large, covering vast areas. The wide bases of shield volcanoes can even cover several miles in diameter, including a flatter summit and the steeper middle slopes. Furthermore, these volcanoes usually don't erupt catastrophically. Shield volcanoes build slowly over time. They are typically formed with several eruptions that further create multiple layers. Some of the largest volcanoes on Earth are shield volcanoes. Examples include Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa, rising over about 9 kilometers above the seafloor. Lava Domes Volcanoes Volcanic or lava domes are formed from small masses of lava, known to viscous (thick) to flow very far. Unlike the volcanoes shielded with low-viscosity lava, magmas from the lava domes pile up above and around the vent. The lava within the dome rises in expanses, and the material emanating from the sides of the dome forms rising mountains. Violent eruptions can occur in lava domes, causing massive amounts of hot rock and ash. They are sometimes formed within the crater of previous volcanic eruptions. Like a combined volcano, they can produce violent, explosive eruptions, but their lava generally does not emanate very far from the point of origin. The Soufrière Hills volcano, on the Caribbean island of Montserrat, is well known for its lava dome complex at the volcano's summit, which has gone through phases of growth and collapse. Categories of Volcanoes There are mainly three categories into which volcanoes are divided, such as: Active Volcanoes: Active volcanoes refer to volcanoes that have recently erupted and are likely to erupt again very soon. Dormant Volcanoes: Dormant volcanoes refer to volcanoes that have not erupted in a long time but are likely to erupt soon. Extinct Volcanoes: Extinct volcanoes refer to volcanoes that have erupted thousands of years ago and are unlikely to erupt again. Next TopicKubernetes vs. Docker ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
