https://www.javatpoint.com/solder
Solder - Javatpoint
Solder - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Solder The solder is a term used in the soldering process. It acts as a filler material between the two workpieces (generally metals) to be joined. The solder creates a strong bond between the two workpieces. Soldering is an inexpensive method as compared to welding and brazing. All three terms are used to fuse the two workpieces. Solder in the form of wire is shown below: Here, we will discuss the soldering kit, process to remove the solder, types of solder, composition, and blends of the solder materials. Soldering kit Let's discuss the soldering kit. The soldering kit comprises of a solder (material that acts as filler), soldering iron, soldering station (needed for variable temperature control), solder stand (required to place the hot soldering iron when not in use), wet sponge (for cleaning the soldering iron tip), solder wick (used to remove the solder from the components), rosin flux (used to clean the metal surface) and the required material (workpieces) on which the soldering is to be done. Hence, we can say that solder wick is a type of copper wire coated with rosin flux, which is used to remove the solder from the components or workpieces. Let's discuss the process to remove the solder. Today, most of the modern solder comes with built-in rosin flux. It does not require any external rosin flux for its cleaning. It automatically breaks down the oxides on the surface of the metal. Process to remove the solder Te removing of solder from the component is also known as desoldering. The circuit board components are difficult to remove or change when the solder is present on them. The desoldering process helps us to remove the component from the circuit boards easily. The process to remove the solder is listed below: Switch ON the power supply to activate the soldering iron attached to the soldering station. Adjust the temperature with the help of the temperature knob. The soldering iron will be heated to the specified temperature. Place the wire of the solder wick on the component from which we want to remove the solder. Clean the soldering iron and place the heated soldering iron on the centre of the solder wick placed on the component. The solder will flow into the wick. Thus, the above process can be used to remove the solder from the desired component. In case we are unable to remove the solder, we can reapply the solder on that component and follow the same process discussed above. Types of Solder The solder is categorized as hard solder and soft solder, depending on the temperature requirements. The common soldering process requires a temperature of 190 degrees Celsius. But, for large projects, high-temperature soldering can also be used. The melting point of solder is required to be less than the melting point of the workpieces. The higher temperature solder can weaken the bond between the two workpieces to be joined. Soft Solder The temperature of the soft solder is less than 450 degrees Celsius. The specified temperature range upto 450 degrees is the standard requirement for the soldering process. A temperature higher than 450 is termed as hard solder. Hard Solder The temperature requirement of the hard solder is more than 450 degrees Celsius. Hard solder is commonly preferred for brazing. It is used in jewellery making. It requires red heat to melt. Here, red heat signifies the metal heated till it turns red or strong heating. Composition of Solder The solder is made of metal that melts when heated with the soldering iron. It cools after it is applied to the components. The composition refers to the materials that it is made up of. It can be categorized as: Lead - based Lead - free Flux Let's discuss this in detail. Lead-based The lead-based solders contain lead and tin as the composition of solder. The percentage contribution of tin is between 5% and 70% by weight. The higher percentage of tin provides added strength to the solder. In the United States, the use of lead is prohibited due to its toxic nature. Note: The lead can harm the human through the soil, air, water, paint, and dust. It damages the kidney and the immune system of human beings. In the applications of soldering in plumbing, the use of lead was replaced by other metals. The advantages of lead-based solder include low temperatures and better quality. But, its toxic nature has made it a poisonous substance for the health of human beings. Hence, lead-free solders replaced lead-based solders. Lead- free The lead-free solder is the solders with no composition of lead in it. The tin percentage is increased, and the lead was replaced by other metals, such as solver or antimony. Lead-free solder composition comprises other metals, such as copper, tin, bismuth, antimony, zinc, etc. The combination of tin, silver, and copper is used for hand soldering and wave soldering applications. In order to add compatibility to the solder, the addition of the fourth element has been recently discovered. The fourth element can be Zinc or Manganese. Flux Flux is used to break down the formation of the oxide at the surface of the metals. It adds mechanical strength at the points of contact. The flux can be categorized as active flux and passive flux. Active flux includes the strong acids that are used for the applications, such as plumbing. Passive flux contains rosin that is generally used in electronics. Due to some environmental concerns, the use of rosin flux has been replaced by water-soluble flux. The water-soluble flux is easy to remove with detergents or purified water (de-ionized water). It is because the removal of flux after soldering is essential. Solder Blends There are various types of solder available with different composition of metals. Let's discuss the role of additive components: Alloys Alloys are a combination of one or more than one metal. Let's discuss the role of various metals and their effect as additives to the solder material. Copper Copper improves the wetting (potential of a liquid to maintain contact with the solid surface) property of the melted solder. It also forms intermetallic compounds. Zinc Zinc is an inexpensive material with a low melting point. But, its corrosive nature is not suitable for some of the applications. It requires flux to prevent oxidation and corrosion. The most commonly used solder alloys with zinc composition are Zinc-cadmium, Zinc- tin-lead, etc. Tin As discussed, tin is the main composition of solder alloys. The higher percentage of tin adds strength to the solder. It also lowers the melting point of the solder. Some of the parts (that need to be joined) cannot resist higher temperatures. Hence, low-temperature solder is used to join such parts. Antimony Antimony helps in increasing the strength of the solder. It does disturb the wettability of the solder. Indium Indium improves the ductility (the ability of a material to be easily stretched into wires) of the solder. Silver Silver adds mechanical strength to the solder. The combination of copper and zinc as the alloy material of solder is used for brazing. The addition of silver also provides corrosion resistance joints. The addition of certain materials with silver, such as cadmium or lead, can be toxic. Next TopicTypes of Thermometer ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
