https://www.javatpoint.com/ejb-vs-spring
EJB vs. Spring - Javatpoint
EJB vs. Spring - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev EJB vs. Spring EJB and Spring both are technologies that are capable to provide middleware solutions. But it's the development philosophy are different. Both provide similar a functional range but the code looks identical. In this section, we will discuss the difference between EJB and Spring. EJB EJB is an acronym for Enterprise JavaBeans. It is a Java API that is used for distributed and component-based programming. It specifies the bean format. It outlines a set of services provided by the container on which the bean runs. For this reason, developers need not to worried about services like security, transaction support, etc. An application server (such as JBoss, WebLogic, etc.) is required to run an EJB application. Although, the Spring framework can be sued with any application server. Spring applications are locked into both Spring itself and the specific services you choose to integrate into the Spring framework. Spring Spring is an open-source, lightweight framework. It offers many features such as IOC, transaction management, JDBC exception handling, etc. It has a layered architecture that allows us to choose the necessary components while starting development. It also supports other frameworks such as Hibernate, JSF, EJB, etc. Spring framework forces the developers to emphasize the business requirements rather than the architectural details of the application. The design of Spring Framework is such that it sits on the top of the application servers and service libraries. While in EJB 3.0, the framework is integrated into the application servers and the service integration code is encapsulated behind an interface. Thus, it can optimize the performance and developer experience by working at the application server level. For example, they can tie the JPA engine closely to JTA transaction management. Therefore, EJB is not perfect because some features are still missing like an injection of non-managed components like simple POJOs. Difference Between EJB and Spring The key difference between EJB and Spring is that EJB is a specification of Java EE while Spring is a framework or an implementation. Another key difference is that Spring does not support propagation of transaction context across remote calls while EJB does the same. EJB has been specially designed for transactional and component programming. It is used to develop the server-side application. While Spring provides the infrastructure configuration and lets the developer focus on business requirements. S.N. Basis of Comparison EJB Spring 1 Transaction Management It supports only the JTA transaction manager. It supports multiple transactions such as JTA, Hibernate, JDO, and JDBC. 2 Dependency Injection It can inject Lists, properties, maps, and JNDI resources. It can inject EJB's data, JMS, and JPA resources into the container. 3 Persistence It supports programmatic bean-managed persistence and tightly integrated into JPA. It provides a framework that supports the integration of various persistence technologies like JDBC, Hibernate, JDO, and iBATIS. 4 State Management It supports stateful session beans and extended persistence context. Supports web container session management. 5 Web Services Provides supports for JAX-WS 2.0. It does not support any direct web service integration. 6 Distributed Computing It provides a container that manages remote method calls. It also provides support for remote method calls through RMI, web services, and JAX-RPC. 7 Messaging It supports out-of-box messaging capabilities through message divan beans. Listeners configuration is added if dealing with messaging. 8 Scheduling Simple scheduling can be achieved through the EJB Timer service. For scheduling, Quartz must be added and configured. 9 AOP Provides limited support through interceptors. It supports AspectJ and Spring AOP alliance. 10 Security Declarative and programmatic security can be achieved through JAAS. It does not provide any out-of-box security implementation. We can use the Acegi framework to achieve the same. 11 Clustering Most containers have built-in support. Complex third-party solution available. What to use? If we want to develop such an application that has lots of configuration and that has control at the container level, we should go with Spring. If we do not want to spend too much time in configuration and the application has a pre-defined tech stack, we can use EJB. Can Spring replace EJB? Spring was developed as an alternative to EJB from its beginning. All the components of EJB are integrated into Spring. Hence, we can use Spring instead of EJB. Spring encourages good object-oriented design practice. The advantage of using Spring is that we can easily switch to other DI frameworks such as Guice. Next TopicFascinating Number in Java ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
