https://www.javatpoint.com/verilog
Verilog Tutorial - javatpoint
Verilog Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Java Verilog Teradata SQL PL/SQL SQLite MongoDB Cassandra MySQL Oracle CouchDB Neo4j C Quiz Projects Interview Q Verilog Tutorial Verilog Tutorial Lexical Tokens ASIC Design Flow Design Abstraction Layers Verilog Data Types Behavioral Modelling & Timing Verilog Module RTL Verilog Scalar & Vector Verilog Arrays Verilog Port Assign Statements Verilog Operators Verilog always Block Verilog Initial block Verilog Block Statements Verilog Assignment Blocking & Non-blocking Verilog Control Blocks Verilog Functions Verilog Task Verilog Case Statement Verilog Parameters Verilog Timing Control Inter & Intra Delay Verilog Gate Delays Data Flow Modeling Gate Level Modeling Switch Level Modeling User Defined Primitives Verilog Simulation Basics Verilog Timescale Verilog Timeformat Scheduling Semantics Verilog Display Tasks JK Flip Flop D Flip-Flop T Flip Flop Verilog D Latch Ripple Counter Ring Counter 4-bit Counter Mod-N Counter Johnson Counter Bidirectional Shift Register Gray Counter File Operations Verilog Full Adder Priority Encoder Verilog Multiplexer next ? Verilog Tutorial Verilog is a Hardware Description Language (HDL). It is a language used for describing a digital system such as a network switch, a microprocessor, a memory, or a flip-flop. We can describe any digital hardware by using HDL at any level. Designs described in HDL are independent of technology, very easy for designing and debugging, and are normally more useful than schematics, particularly for large circuits. What is Verilog? Verilog is a HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE (HDL), which is used to describe a digital system such as a network switch or a microprocessor or a memory a flip-flop. Verilog was developed to simplify the process and make the HDL more robust and flexible. Today, Verilog is the most popular HDL used and practiced throughout the semiconductor industry. HDL was developed to enhance the design process by allowing engineers to describe the desired hardware's functionality and let automation tools convert that behavior into actual hardware elements like combinational gates and sequential logic. Verilog is like any other hardware description language. It permits the designers to design the designs in either Bottom-up or Top-down methodology. Bottom-Up Design: The traditional method of electronic design is bottom-up. Each design is performed at the gate-level using the standards gates. This design gives a way to design new structural, hierarchical design methods. Top-Down Design: It allows early testing, easy change of different technologies, and structured system design and offers many other benefits. Verilog Abstraction Levels Verilog supports a design at many levels of abstraction, such as: Behavioral level Register-transfer level Gate level Behavioral level The behavioral level describes a system by concurrent algorithms behavioral. Every algorithm is sequential, which means it consists of a set of executed instructions one by one. Functions, tasks, and blocks are the main elements. There is no regard for the structural realization of the design. Register-Transfer Level Designs using the Register-Transfer Level specify a circuit's characteristics using operations and the transfer of data between the registers. The modern definition of an RTL code is "Any code that is synthesizable is called RTL code". Gate Level The characteristics of a system are described by logical links and their timing properties within the logical level. All signals are discrete signals. They can only have definite logical values (`0', `1', `X', `Z`). The usable operations are predefined logic primitives (basic gates). Gate level modeling may not be the right idea for logic design. Gate level code is generated using tools such as synthesis tools, and his netlist is used for gate-level simulation and backend. History of Verilog Verilog HDL's history goes back to the 1980s when a company called Gateway Design Automation developed a logic simulator, Verilog-XL, and a hardware description language. Cadence Design Systems acquired Gateway in 1989 and with it the rights to the language and the simulator. In 1990, Cadence put the language into the public domain, with the intention that it should become a standard, non-proprietary language. The Verilog HDL is now maintained by a nonprofit making organization, Accellera, formed from the merger of Open Verilog International (OVI) and VHDL International. OVI had the task of taking the language through the IEEE standardization procedure. In December 1995, Verilog HDL became IEEE Std. 1364-1995. A significantly revised version was published in 2001: IEEE Std. 1364-2001. There was a further revision in 2005, but this only added a few minor changes. Accellera has also developed a new standard, SystemVerilog, which extends Verilog. SystemVerilog became an IEEE standard (1800-2005) in 2005. How is Verilog useful? Verilog creates a level of abstraction that helps hide away the details of its implementation and technology. For example, a D flip-flop design would require the knowledge of how the transistors need to be arranged to achieve a positive-edge triggered FF and what the rise, fall, and CLK-Q times required to latch the value onto a flop among much other technology-oriented details. Power dissipation, timing, and the ability to drive nets and other flops would also require a more thorough understanding of a transistor's physical characteristics. Verilog helps us to focus on the behavior and leave the rest to be sorted out later. Prerequisites Before learning Verilog, you should have a basic knowledge of VLSI Design language. You should know how Logic diagrams work, Boolean algebra, logic gates, Combinational and Sequential Circuits, operators, etc. You should know about Static timing analysis concepts such as setup time, hold time, critical path, limits on clock frequency, etc. ASIC and FPGA basics and Synthesis and simulation concepts. Audience Our Verilog tutorial is designed to help beginners, Design Engineers, and Verification Engineers who are willing to learn how to model digital systems in the Verilog HDL to allow for automatic synthesis. By the end of this tutorial, you will have gained an intermediate level of expertise in Verilog. Problem We assure you that you will not find any problem with the Verilog Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the question in the contact form. Next TopicLexical Tokens next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
