https://www.javatpoint.com/top-10-richest-caste-in-india
Top 10 Richest Caste in India - Javatpoint
Top 10 Richest Caste in India - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Top 10 Richest Caste in India In this blog, you might get to recognize the Top 10 Richest Caste System, Top 10 Richest Citizens in India, Richest and most powerful Group in India, Richest National Religion. Along with the whole, it is therefore about affluent Community of India, prosperous Caste of India. There are several cultures and castes in-country and most of us often stay in India quietly and happily. It's the uniqueness of India, our land. As we all understand, there are several cases of group conflict, but we all recognize how to battle the divisive powers that oppose our nation's peace and dignity. All groups work and collaborate together here and relate to the Economic growth of India. And if we're going to talk over which category is prosperous or which society is richest, let me tell you that a caste's wealth doesn't base on the list of Forbes. So precisely which group or culture is rich or poor cannot be said. A given group's wealth can only be measured if we consider the overall per capita earning. Here, as per income (average) and standard of living, we evaluate the Top 10 Affluent Communities in India. 1. Parsis Several Persians traveled to India at the time of the Muslim annexation of Persia to save their existences and their Zoroastrian belief. Although they were from Persia, people are beginning to consider them Parsis in our country India. They are extraordinarily keeping faith and smart people. They worked hard and, in terms of total revenue, developed themselves as India's affluent community. There are just 60,000 Parsis off from 135 Crore Indian people, but 3 out of the top 10 wealthiest Indians are also Parsis. They presume both in the accumulation of money and in the donation. If you receive less than 100,000 a month in the Parsi culture, you will be considered inferior. Mumbai was classified as the fishermen's destination before Parsis, they made it India's financial capital but with their hard-work. Parsis founded businesses and several sectors that established Economic growth. These are the most prominent businessmen in India over the last 600 years. Today India is the fifth-biggest economy globally; Parsis performed a corpulent role in it. Popular Parsi's Surname are- Ganjawala, Daruwalla, Wadia, Tata, Mistry, Bhabha, Irani, Manekshaw, Batliwala etc. Most Prominent Personalities of Parsi's are listed below - Jamsetji Tata-Father of Company in India Ratan Tata-TATA Group Chairperson Battle Marshal Sam Manekshaw-Former Army Chief of Staff Homi Jehangir Bhabha-Father of the Nuclear Ambitions of India SH Kapadia-Thirty-Eighth Indian Chief Justice (CJI) Ardeshir Godrej: Godrej Community developer Freddie Mercury-The lead singer of Queen's rock band Bollywood actor Boman Irani 2. Jain Jains established only 0.4 percent of India's citizenry, but they outperform the Indian industrial sectors and news organizations. Becoming one of India's rich, powerful, and most skilled communities preserves its impact on the India's country and industry. 70.6 percent of Jain individuals are very wealthy, as per the National Demographic And health survey. Only 1.5 percent of India's Jain people are below minimum wage. In India, Jains have the second-highest per capita income. If you enquire any Jain about wealth, most of them will believe that money is significant for survival. Jain people are all of the period preoccupied earning an income. And they're not only making money; they're still spending it on themselves and the environment. They value their income, and that's why they secure and spend it wisely with care. The Jains have the highest prevalence of 94.1 percent in our country India. Here, we have some prominent surname of Jain's: Rupani, Zaveri, Bhansali, Oswal, Mehta, Sarak, Gada, Doshi, etc. Some prominent Jain personalities- Narendra Patni- Patni Computers Developer Vineet Jain- MD (Managing director) of Benett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. Gautam Adani- Adani Group Chairman Mangal Prabhat Lodha- Founder of Lodha Company Rasiklal Manikchand Dhariwal- Manikchand Group proprietor Sanjay Leela Bhansali-Director of the Company (Bollywood) Shailesh Ranka- Founder of Ranka Jewellers Pvt Ltd. 3. Sikh The Sikh community has served an immense role in Nation's economic, societal, and defense progress. Sikhs are very hard-working and dedicated to their principles. They contribute themselves, whether it be a corporation or a work, to the job. If we consider capita income, Sikhs have deemed the third richest group in India. According to the Indian National Demographic And health survey, 59.6 percent of Sikhs are in the affluent group. The Sikh community is clustered in the India's State of Punjab. Squished among three rivers, the region of Punjab makes it very productive. One factor why the Sikh community is very prosperous is firm agricultural soil with substantial agricultural production. Even outside India, there are about 80 Lakh Sikhs, mainly in Canada. This NRIs (Non-residential Indian) add to the assets of the Sikh religion as well. Few familiar Sikh surnames are- Sandhu, Gill, Grewal, Randhawa, Dhillon, Bajwa, Aujla, Sindu, Maan, Walia, Ahluwalia, Bhullar etc. Some well-known Sikh celebrities are indexed below- Kuldeep Singh Dhingra- Owner of Burger paints Malvinder Mohan Singh- Fortis and Ranbaxy Group Analjit Singh- Chairman/Founder of Max India Limited Dara Singh- Wrestler and actor Ajay Banga- Chief operating officer and President of MasterCard Manmohan Singh- Former Prime minister of India Nikki Haley- Ambassador from the United States to United Nations Arjun Singh- Ex-chief of IAF (Indian Air Force) Dharmendra Singh Deol- Bollywood Actor Khushwant Singh- Journalist 4. Kayasth Kayasth is a separate community, as per the Brahmanical holy books, responsible for implementing secular articles and gathering records. Kayasthas have been active in high-level government positions since Medieval India, working as leaders and consultants to the Indian Rulers. Kayasthas used to play a significant administrative duty throughout the British Raj. In a present society already, most of the Kayasth in at a great position, and some achieved achievement in the art forms and diverse industry pastures. As per the national health survey, 57 percent of Kayasthas emerges under the Wealthy class. Here, we have some common Kayasth surname: Saxena, Mathur, Nigam, Asthana, Karna, Surdhawaja, Kulshreshtha, Ambastha, Gaur, Bhatnagar, Sinha, Srivastava, etc. Some Popular Kayasth Personalities are discussed below- Subhash Chandra Bose- Freedom Fighter of India Swami Vivekanand- Indian Hindu Monk Raja Todar Mal- Finance minister of Emperor Akbar Rajendra Prasad- First Indian President Jayaprakash Narayan- Indian Politician Harivansh Rai Bachchan- Writer/ Poet Bhagwati Charan Verma- Writer Lal Bhadur Shastri- Second Prime Minister of India Munshi Prem Chandra- Writer Mahadevi Verma- Poet Amitabh Bachchan- Actor Shatrughan Sinha- Actor 5. Brahmin Brahmins are at the top of the four Hindu castes, consisting of clergy and intellectuals. Suppose we consider the Vedic documents. The Brahmins were advisors to the Maharajas, Mughals, and officials of the army. Numerous Brahmins participated as managers in the British Raj, a place they retained after Independent India. The Brahmins occupied over all the British owned factories in 1947. However, most of the Brahmins in present society are in Caucasian employment, government entity, corporation, astrology, and the domestic sector. In 1989, researchers reported that 70 percent of Category Ist officers in government services included Brahmins. 50.3 percent of Brahmins are in the wealthy class, 13 percent are in the lower category, and the rest are in the middle class, as per the National Health survey. One significant observation about Brahmins is that the Brahmin community can practice any occupation or source of livehood. Still, nobody ever except a Brahmin can be a culturally prescribed cleric. Here, we discussed few famous Brahmin surnames: Sharma, Bhat, Bhardwaj, Bhanot, Shukla, Upadhyay, Joshi, Tiwari, Rao, Kaul, Rena, Kumble, Devgan, Mishra, Pathak, Prasad, Dwivedi, Dikshit, Kaushik, etc. Some well-known Brahmin personalities are- Bajirao (Peshwa) - Maratha Empire's Peshwa Rani Laxmi Bai - Queen of Jhansi Deepika Padukone - Indian Actor Shakuntala Devi - Indian Mathematician Anupam Kher - Bollywood Actor Pranab Mukherjee - Thirteen President of India Narayan Murthy - Chairman of Infosys Rabindranath Tagore - Poet/Writer Vijay Mallya - Founder of Kingfisher Satya Narayan Nadella - Microsoft's CEO (Chief Executive Officer) Sunder Ranjan Pichai - CEO of Google V. Rajsundran - TVS Founder 6. Banias You know many of Baniya already, but do you know why they are named Baniya? Baniya, implying dealer or business, comes from the Sanskrit word Vanij or Vanijya. It is why the population of Baniya has an unswerving hold on Hisaab-Kitab because they have been doing so for generations. Earning profit is in their blood, and they have never missed out on money-making prospects-Banias concern 24/7 service with trade themselves. If we tell you that out of the top 10 wealthiest Indians, 8 are Banias; you would think that when they are only 1% of the overall population of India. 44% of the Banias belong to the affluent community, as per the National Health Survey report. If we look at the names of organizational culture people of Industrial companies name, we will identify Patel, Gupta, Jain, Agrawal, and Shah as the most common surnames. Here, we mentioned several other Prevalent Baniya Surname: Aggarwal, Maheshwari, Mittal, Goel, Lala, Jindal, Gupta, Seth, Sahu, Lodha, Mahajan, Sahukar, Oswal, Bansal, Seth, Garg, etc. Many prominent people of Baniya are- Narendra Modi - PM (Prime minister) of India Mukesh and Anil Ambani - Reliance Group of Industries Laxmi Mittal - CEO (Chief executive officer) of Arcelor group Ghanshyam das Birla - Birla group Sunil Bharti Mittal - Founder and chairman of Bharti enterprises/ Chairperson of International chamber of commerce Uday Kotak - Executive Vice-chairman and MD (Managing Director) of Kotak Mahindra Bank Naresh Goyal - Businessman/ Founder and Chairman of Jet Airways Mukesh Bansal - Founder of Myntra (E-commerce site) and Curefit Arvind Kejriwal - CM (Chief Minister) of Delhi Sachin Bansal - Co-founder and Executive Chairman of Flipkart (E-commercial site) 7. Punjabi Khatri Punjabi Khatri refers to the culture of Kshatriyas; thus, they are synonymous with warriorhood, administration. Since Khatris were forced into commerce at the time of the Mughal empire, they could no longer rebel against them. Since Punjabi Khatri's are often hard-working individuals, they also succeeded in industry and popped up with a very successful businessman. In 1947, the Punjabi Khatris were educated adequately than any other Indian caste. They know the right company strategies, and they have never negotiated with work ethic. They were rendered what they are currently by hard work, dedication, and intellect. In the recent era, the Punjabi Khatri served as entrepreneurs, social and public sector managers, property owners, and military commanders, play a major role in the National economy. Here, we have some Khatri Surnames are- Khanna, Malhotra, Mehra, Mehta, Chopra, Gujral, Sodhi, Tondon etc. The most popular Khatri Punjabi personalities are- Raj Kapoor - Actor Hrithik Roshan - Actor Captain Vikram Batra - PVC (Param Veer Chakra awarded) Military Officer Kalpana Chawla - Astronaut Virat Kohli - Captain of the Indian cricket team Abhinav Bindra - Gold medalist in Olympic (Shooting) Obroies - Obrois group of hotels Karan Johar - Movie actor, director, and producer Pankaj Chaddah - Co-founder and COO (Chief operating officer) of Zomato Inder Kumar Gujral - Formal PM (Prime minister) of India Priyanka Chopra - Actress Purshotam Das Tandon - Freedom Fighter /Bharat Ratna 8. Sindhi The Sindhi society consists of individuals who practice the ideology of Sindhi, not any ethnicity or faith. It is a minor business and commercial culture that initially inhabited Pakistan's Sindh area. Since mostly Sindhis obey Hinduism, after separation, they shifted and established in India. When they arrived in India after separation after losing their citizens and belongings, they were in a lot of sorrow. They've been in distress for years, but they're not there peacefully. They continued doing smaller firms such as supplying tea, moving carts, etc., as business is still their first focus. For decades, they fought diligently, and nowadays, they are well-known celebrities of the company or first class. A reward is worth how they formed themselves after separation. They have an appetite for success and do not bother to take any risks. Here, we mentioned some common Sindhi's surnames: Wadhwani, Wadhwa, Tejwani, Sachdev, Lalwani, Krishnani, Idwani, Khanchandani, Mulchandani, Devnani, Kukreja, Kriplani, Kalwani, Kakwani, Jodhwani, Hirani, Dadlani, Harchandani, Chawla, Chhabada, Chatwani, Bajaj, Chanchlani, Advani, Bhatia, Ahuja, Hiranandani, Bhavnani etc. Here, we list some famous personalities. They are- Hinduja Brothers - Owner and founder of Hinduja group Lal Krishna Advani - Politician Vishal Dadlani - Singer and Music composer Raju Hirani - Movie Director Niranjan Hiranandani - Owner of Hiranandani group Pankaj Arjan Advani - Snooker and Billiards world champion Chandra Kochhar - CEO (Chief executive officer) and MD (Managing Director) of ICICI Bank Ranveer Singh Bhavnani - Bollywood Actor Chandra Prakash Gurnani - Managing Director and Chief executive officer of Tech Mahindra Ram Jethmalani - Advocate and Former law minister of India Patanjali Keswani - Owner and founder of Lemon Tree hotels 9. Rajput The Rajput group is typical of India's ancient warrior or Kshatriya category. As such, they're historically kings and fighters. Glory is always the high-rise granite of the Rajput culture. Rajputs are the influential ethnic group of land-owners. Most of the Rajputs currently reside in cities, towns and practice farming for their livelihoods. Several Rajputs act in the military service, and some in the police departments attain their careers. Thirty-one percent of the Rajputs are wealthy; according to the National Demographic And health survey report, 7.3 percent are under the poverty level and middle-class rest. This community is culturally, financially, and ideologically wealthy and governs the society and politics of India. Here, we Indexed some common Rajput surnames: Rawat, Thakre, Raghuvanshi, Tomar, Gaekwad, Rane, Solanki, Chandela, Chouhan, Jodha, Gour, Ranawat, Rathore, Suryavanshi, etc. Many prominent people of Rajputs are given below- Sushant Singh Rajput - Indian Actor Bhairon Singh Shekhawat - Former vice president of India The Great Khali/ Dalip Singh Rana - Wrestler and World heavyweight champion Major Dhyan Chandra - Former captain of Indian Hockey Team Milkha Sigh - Indian Athlete and Racer Mahendra Singh Dhoni - Indian Cricketer Major Shaitan Singh - Param veer Chakra winner Kangana Ranaut - Indian Movie Actress Prithviraj Chauhan - Rajput King P. Singh - Former Prime minister 10. Christians Christianity is the country's wealthiest faith. The great majority of capital owned globally is accounted. There are 2.8 Crore Christianity adherents in our country India, which renders Christianity India's third-biggest culture. According to the India's National Health Survey, 29.1% of Indian Christians are in the wealthy elite. In India, Christians grant learning utmost importance. They are therefore well trained and uphold a decent quality of life. Here, we have some famous Christian Surnames in India are- D'Cruz, D'Costa, D'Souza, Pathrose, D'Silva, Costa, Fortes, Gonsalves/Goncalves, Jacques, Lawrence, l Martins, Mendes, Pinto, Rodrigues etc. Famous personalities of Christianity are - George Fernandes - Trade Unionist of India G. George Muthoot - Chairman of Muthoot Vinod Kambli - Cricketer Leander Paes - Professional Tennis player of India J John - Travancore State Congress (founder and Leader) Tiger Prabhakar - Movie actor Kannada C Jamir - Nagaland's former chief minister Mary Kom - Bronze medallist of Olympic Next TopicTop 10 Whisky brands in India ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
