https://www.javatpoint.com/fragmentation-vs-regeneration
Difference between Fragmentation and Regeneration - javatpoint
Difference between Fragmentation and Regeneration - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Fragmentation and Regeneration The difference between fragmentation and regeneration is very clear. When an organism splits off from itself, separation happens. The fragmented parts of the organism evolve into distinct individual organisms. On the other hand, regeneration is a type of asexual reproduction. It is normal in unicellular and lower multi-cellular species, like planar. In this article, we will discuss the difference between fragmentation and regeneration. But firstly, we will know about fragmentation and regeneration. What is Fragmentation? Fragmentation refers to the process of asexual reproduction by which the parent organism splits into multiple fragments, and each fragment is capable of forming a new organism. The distinction between fragmentation and regeneration is that, unlike regeneration, fragmentation splits the entire organism into parts. The green algae spirogyra that floats in water is a good example of fragmentation. It is also known as splitting and reproduction processes. It may be seen in various species like bacteria, filamentous cyanobacteria, lichens, sponges, flatworms, etc. What is Regeneration? It is the processes in which the organism is cut into many parts, and each part can return to its original state. This process is conducted by specialized cells called stem cells. It occurs in species that have a very basic structure and very few specialized cells. The cells are easily separated into a large number of cells. Each cell changes to shape in different types of cells and tissues. This sequential change process is defined as development. The tissues are formed by different sections of the body and organs. Main differences between the fragmentation and regeneration The following are the key differences between fragmentation and regeneration: Fragmentation may occur in multi-cellular species with the body's basic organization. In contrast, regeneration may occur in a fully differentiated multi-cellular organism with a complex body organization. In fragmentation, the organism splits into pieces, and each piece evolves into a new entity. Whereas in regeneration, the organisms divide into parts, and the parts may or may not be grouped into a new body. Any specialized cells are not involved in fragmentation. In contrast, specialized cells proliferate and form a mass of cells in regeneration. Cells vary from mass to shape in various types of cells and tissues. Head-to-Head comparison between fragmentation and regeneration The below chart will discuss the head-to-head comparison between fragmentation and regeneration: Fragmentation Regeneration During the fragmentation process, an organism divides into fragments, and each of these fragments develops into a separate organism. During the regeneration, the organism regenerates a particular part of the body in any damage to the body. The fragmentation process is only viewed in the organism that has the same simple body organization and multi-cellular. The regeneration process is a view in the multi-cellular organism which have complex body organization. Any specialized cells are not involved in fragmentation. Specialized cells proliferate and make a mass of cells in regeneration. It is only limited to the specified organism. However, regeneration is a view in all organisms either up to a specified extent or completely. It is only viewed in invertebrates. It is the view in both vertebrates and invertebrates. It is a reproduction process. It is the reproduction process and regeneration of lost body parts, cells or tissues. It is usually view in plants, especially non-vascular ones. It is usually viewed in animals as compared to plants. It happens in only a limited number of organisms. Every organism may exhibit the phenomenon of regeneration. Conclusion Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction in which the organism reproduces by breaking into parts, and each part grows into a particular organism. On the other hand, regeneration may occur when an organism regrows some parts or limbs that have been damaged due to predation. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
