https://www.javatpoint.com/sql-server-management-studio
Sql Server Management Studio - javatpoint
Sql Server Management Studio - javatpoint ? Home C# SQL Server SQL PL/SQL SQLite MongoDB Cassandra MySQL Oracle CouchDB Neo4j Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training SQL Server Tutorials SQL Server Tutorials What is SQL Server Install Visual Studio Install SQL Server SS Management Studio SS Datatypes DB Operations SS Login Database SS Create Database SS Select Database SQL Server Database SS Create Table SS Delete Table SS Insert Data SS Update Data SS Delete Data SS Delete TOP Aggregate Function SS MIN Function SS MAX Function SS SUM Function SS AVG Function SS COUNT Function SQL Server Operators SS Comparison Operator SS UNION Operator SS INTERSECT Operator IN Operator NOT Operator BETWEEN Operator IS NULL Operator IS NOT NULL Operator LIKE Operator EXIST Operator SQL Server Clauses DISTINCT Clause GROUP BY Clause SQL Server Keys SS Primary Keys Enable Primary Key DIsable Primary Key Drop Primary Key SS Foreign Keys Enable Foreign Key Disable Foreign Key Drop Foreign Key SQL Server Advance Create View Backup Database Restore Database Miscellaneous SQL Server Substring CTE in SQL Server Services SSIS Tutorial SSRS Tutorial Interview Questions SQL Server Interview next ? ? prev SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) MS SQL Server Management Studio is a workstation or a client tool which is used to connect to and manage your SQL Server SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) is a windows software or a client tool used to connect and work with our SQL Server from a graphical interface instead of using the command line. Microsoft SQL Server 2005 launched the management studio to work with SQL Server and Azure SQL databases. It allows DBAs and database developers to configure, manage, and administer all components within SQL Server. Its main functionality is to create databases and tables, execute SQL queries for inserting, updating, and deleting data, creating and managing stored procedures, triggers, views, and cursors. It also enables us to set privileges (securities) on databases and their objects. SSMS also includes tools for deployment, database health monitoring, and reporting. It includes SQL Profiler, which allows us to examine the performance of our SQL databases. It's also possible to use it to schedule background work. If we want to connect to a remote SQL Server instance, we'll need this GUI tool or similar software. It is used by Administrators, Developers, Testers, etc. The latest version of SQL Server Management Studio is SSMS 18.8 RC. If we have installed a previous version, we just need to install SSMS 18.8 upgrades. SSMS System Requirements The following are the requirements to install the current release of SSMS when used with the latest available service pack: It will support the below Operating Systems: Windows 10 (64-bit) version 1607 (10.0.14393) or later Windows 8.1 (64-bit) Windows Server 2019 (64-bit) Windows Server 2016 (64-bit) Windows Server 2012 R2 (64-bit) Windows Server 2012 (64-bit) Windows Server 2008 R2 (64-bit) Before installing it on your system, we must have the following hardware: 8 GHz or faster x86 processor. For better use, it is recommended to have Dual-core. It requires a minimum of 2 GB RAM, but 4 GB is recommended (if it runs on a virtual machine, a minimum of 2.5 GB is required). We must have a minimum of 2 GB up to 10 GB space on the hard disk. How to Download and Install SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) We can use the following steps to download and install Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) in the Windows system: Step 1: Go to the official page by clicking on this link and click on Download SQL Server Management Studio 18.08. Immediately the SSMS setup starts downloading on your system. Step 2: Once the file has been downloaded, it will be named "SSMS-Setup-ENU.exe." Now, double-click on it to continue. If you see the prompt message "Do you want to allow the following to make a change this computer? Say YES. Step 3: We will see a below window. Here, we can change the installation location and then click the 'Install' button for installing SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) on your device. Step 4: The installation process will start. We will see the progress of the packages and the overall progress on the below screen. Since it downloads the necessary packages from the internet, the installation can take some time. Step 5: When SSMS Setup is finished, it will show the screen below with the "Setup Completed" message. It's possible that we may prompt us to restart our computer. How to access SQL Server Management Studio We can use the following steps to access SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS): Go to Start Menu>Programs>Microsoft SQL Server Tools 18> Microsoft SSMS 18. The 'Connect to Server' dialogue screen will appear in front of us when we start SSMS. Set the Server name and Authentication type of the SQL Server we want to connect to on this screen, then click the Connect button to be connected to 'Data Management Studio'. Here the server name defaults to the name chosen during the installation of the MS SQL server. Let us understand each field of the above screen in detail: Server type: It is a dropdown menu that allows us to choose one of four MS SQL services options. Here we'll be working on the 'Database Engine' that enables us to create and work with databases. Some of the examples of other server types are Analysis, Reporting, and Integration Services. Server name: It is the server's name where MS SQL Server is installed, and we will need to connect with that server. In most cases, we refer to the server name as "Machine name/Instance." Here we had given the Instance name to the SQL Server instance during installation. Authentication: If we use "Windows Authentication" during SQL Server's installation, this option is set to "Windows Authentication." Authentication will be set to "SQL Server Installation" if we have chosen "Mixed Mode (Windows Authentication & Windows Authentication)." User name\Password: These two fields will be needed when the Authentication is set to other than "Windows Authentication," such as "SQL Server Installation." How to access SQL Server Management studio using Command line? We can also use the Window Command Line tool to launch SQL Server Management Studio. We can do this by using the complete path to ssms.exe. The default location and file name are as follows: 
C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 18\Common7\IDE
Exe name: ssms.exe
 The steps to access Management Studio through the command line are as follows: Type CMD into the Search box to open Command Prompt. Next, we need to type the complete path followed by ssms.exe and press Enter. Immediately, we will see the 'Connect to Server' screen similar to the one we have described above. Introduction to Data Management Studio IDE The Data Management Studio launch screen will look like below. We will discuss each section in detail. 1. Query Editor This section is used to write all of our queries. MS SQL Server offers interactive recommendations for tables, columns, and other items for easy queries creations and a variety of other features. 2. Object Explorer The Object Explorer shows the database objects contained on the server in a tree format. For quick reference, this section lists all of the Databases, Security, and Server Objects. We can see each object's components by simply pressing the + icon to the left of the object to expand it. 3. Databases Selection Dropdown It is a dropdown option that allows the user to choose the database to run our queries. 4. Execute button It is an execution button that allows the user to execute the query and return the results. 5. Cancel Executing Query It is a button that is used to stop the execution of the query. 6. Parse It is a button used to validate the query's syntax but doesn't check the database objects. 7. Changing query result destination This button group allows us to set the query result's destination. There are three options available: Results to Grid Results to Text Results to File 8. Comment/Uncomment out the Selected Lines These buttons allow us to comment or uncomment the lines of code we have chosen. For example, to see the line numbers of the code in the query editor. Important points to remember The following points must be useful while using the SQL Server Management Studio: SSMS is a standalone application that doesn't refer to any particular SQL Server version. For example, we may use SMMS Version 18 with SQL Server 2017 and SQL Server 2016. If we write the larger code, it reduces the readability. In that case, we need to make use of comments for better readability. We can comment out a line, just putting "--" in front of it. A sudden shutdown or a device failure may result in data loss. We can minimize the data loss by setting the 'AutoRecover' option checked. We can also configure the AutoRecover data time-period and the number of days this information is stored before being deleted. We can set the AutoRecover option as below: Tools> Options>Environment>AutoRecover SSMS Versions and Updates The first version of SSMS was released with SQL Server 2005. With SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2012, and SQL Server 2016, SSMS is an integral part of SQL Server. Microsoft began the first numerical versioning sequence in 2016, with the SSMS version number 16.3. Version numbers for all series include 16.x, 17.x, and 18.0. The latest series, which is 18.0, have the following versions: 18.0 (Preview 4), 18.0 (Preview 5), and 18.0 (Preview 6). As of March 2021, the current version of SQL Server Management Studio is SSMS 18.8 RC. Next TopicSQL Server Datatypes ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
