https://www.javatpoint.com/bootstrap-4
Bootstrap 4 | Bootstrap 4 Tutorial | What is Bootstrap 4 - Javatpoint
Bootstrap 4 | Bootstrap 4 Tutorial | What is Bootstrap 4 - Javatpoint ? Home Bootstrap 4 Bootstrap HTML JavaScript jQuery jQuery UI CSS XML JSON C Java PHP Ajax Quiz Projects Interview Q Bootstrap 4 Tutorial Bootstrap 4 Tutorial Environment setup Bootstrap 4 Layout Bootstrap 4 Buttons Bootstrap 4 Dropdown Bootstrap 4 Spinners Bootstrap 4 Badges Bootstrap 4 Progress Bars Bootstrap 4 Jumbotron Bootstrap 4 Text Bootstrap 4 Pagination Bootstrap 4 Carousel Bootstrap 4 Scrollspy next ? What is Bootstrap 4? Bootstrap 4 is the newest version of Bootstrap. Bootstrap can be defined as a free and open-source framework that can be used to create responsive, mobile-first, front-end web pages. Advantages of Bootstrap: There are various different advantages of Bootstrap, a few of them are given below: The first and foremost advantage of using Bootstrap is that it is very easy to use and implement. If a person has some basic knowledge of HTML and CSS, that user can easily use Bootstrap. The fact that Bootstrap can adapt to the size of any phone, tablet, desktop and so on is also very interesting feature. Bootstrap 4 is also useful because it is compatible with all modern browsers which include Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer 10+, Edge, Safari, and Opera. It also produces less cross-browser bugs. It is light weighted and consequently it can be widely used as a framework for creating responsive sites. Lastly, Bootstrap 4 is a very simple and yet very effective grid system. Why should one use Bootstrap? There are multiple reasons for that, such as: It is a way more fast and simpler way to develop websites. It can create platform-independent web pages. It can also create responsive web pages. The web pages created by using Bootstrap 4 can be easily made responsive. What are some key usages of Bootstrap 4 in today's world? There are various key usages of Bootstrap 4, the examples are given below: Supported by various Browsers: It can be supported by every browser. Simple to start and implement: It is very easy to start and implement when the user has a fair amount of knowledge about HTML and CSS. In addition to that, the documentation is readily available on the official site. Responsive design and looks: The web pages that are created by using the Bootstrap framework are responsive and it can adapt to any screen size like mobile, desktop, etc. Easily Customized: It also provides some built-in components and functionalities that can be used for the purpose of easily customizing the web pages. What are the disadvantages of bootstrap 4? Bootstrap 4 also has many disadvantages; those disadvantages are given below: In many cases, Bootstrap cannot be considered very practical for businesses that need a big amount of investment. Moreover, Bootstrap 4 can take a lot of time to create a website. Therefore, it is not a very bright idea to use bootstrap 4 when there is no investment. A person using Bootstrap 4 is not likely to earn any money even after investment. And this is one of the reasons why a user can very easily end up in a lot of debt. Bootstrap 3 vs Bootstrap 4 Bootstrap 3 Bootstrap 4 In Bootstrap 3, the CSS source files are LESS (Leaner Style Sheets). In Bootstrap 4, the CSS source files are SCSS (Sassy CSS). Here, the grid system has 4 tiers which are xs, sm, md, and lg. Here, the grid system has 5 tiers which are xs, sm, md, lg, and xl. The CSS unit is px. The CSS unit is rem. The dropdown structure is created with the help of <ul> and <li>. The dropdown structure is created with the help of <ul> and <div> The class .img-responsive is used in order to create responsive images. The class .img-fluid is used to create responsive images. For icons, a user can use Glyphicons. There is no support for Glyphicons in Bootstrap 4. There are many classes that are used for media objects such as .media, .media-body, .media-object, .media-heading and so on. There is only one class for media objects which is .media. Dark or inverse tables are not supported in Bootstrap 3 A user can create Dark or inverse tables with the help of using .table-dark class. The only classes that can be used to create buttons are .btn-default and .btn-info Many new classes were introduced that can be used to create buttons such as - .btn-light, .btn-secondary, .btn-success, .btn-dark. Moreover, the class .btn-default was dropped. A button of extra small size can be created with the help of .btn-xs class. The button of extra small size was no longer available in Bootstrap 4. The only available classes were .btn-sm and .btn-lg. The checkboxes or radio boxes were created with the help of classes such as .radio, .radio-inline, .checkbox, and .checkbox-inline. The checkboxes and radio buttons are created with the help of using classes such as .form-check, .form-check-label, .form-check-input, and .form-check-inline. The sizes of form can be increased or decreased with the help of using .input-lg and .input-sm classes. The sizes of form can be increased or decreased with the help of using .form-control-lg and .form-control-sm classes. The menu headers can be created with the help of using .dropdown-header class to the li tag. The menu headers are created with the help of using .dropdown-header class with h1 to h2 tags. In order to divide sections, class .divider is used in the li element. In order to divide sections, a class .dropdown-divider can be used in the div element. The pages can be aligned with the help of .previous and .next classes. The classes .previous and .next are not supported in this. Here, the .jumbotron-fluid class cannot be used to create full width jumbotrons. Bootstrap 4 gives a user the access to use the .jumbotron-fluid class to create full width jumbotrons. The class .items is used to create carousel items. The class .carousel-items is used for carousel items. In Bootstrap 3, wells, panels, and thumbnails are supported. In Bootstrap 4, wells, panels, and thumbnails are not supported. In place of that, cards can be used. Prerequisites Before learning Bootstrap 4, you should have a basic knowledge of HTML and CSS. Audience Our Bootstrap 4 tutorial is designed to help beginners and software professionals who are willing to learn Bootstrap 4 concepts and become a front-end developer. By the end of this tutorial, you will have gained an intermediate level of expertise in Bootstrap 4. Problem We assure you that you will not find any problem with the Bootstrap 4 Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the question in the contact form. Next TopicEnvironment Setup next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
