https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-set-background-image-in-excel
How to set background image in Excel - javatpoint
How to set background image in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to set background image in Excel Background image is also known as Watermark. Microsoft Excel allows you to add Background image, logo, and background colors in your document to make the document more attractive, beautiful, and eye-catching. Note: In a Microsoft Excel document, you can not add a background image to multiple Microsoft Excel documents at once. Methods to set a Background image Follow the below methods to set background in Excel - Add background in Excel using Page Layout tab Add background image using the keyboard shortcut keys Add a background with the fill color tool Add backgroud image with Kutools for Excel Method 1: Add background in Excel using Page Layout tab Steps to Add background in Excel There are the following steps to Add background in Excel - Note: Using the below steps, you can set background images in Microsoft Excel 2007, 2010, 2013, and 2019. Step 1: Open a new Microsoft Excel document (File -> New -> Blank document -> Create) or an existing Microsoft Excel document (File -> Open -> Browse document location -> Open button) in which you wish to add the background. Step 2: Click on the Page Layout tab on the ribbon. Click on the Background next to the Breaks option in the Page Setup section. See the screenshot given below. Note: In Microsoft 2003, click on the Format -> Sheet -> Background. Step 3: A small Sheet Background dialog box will appear on the spreadsheet. Browse the Background image that you want to set and click on the Insert button at the bottom of the dialog box, as shown in the below screenshot. Now, the screenshot below shows that your desired background image will appear in the Microsoft Excel document. Method 2: Add a background image in Microsoft Excel using the keyboard shortcut keys Microsoft Excel also allows us to Add or set a background image quickly and easily using the keyboard shortcut keys. Steps to set background A list of below mentions steps shows that how to set a background image in a Microsoft Excel document - Step 1: Double-click on the Microsoft Excel icon to open a Microsoft Excel document. Step 2: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel document. Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Creat to Open a new blank Microsoft Excel document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse document location -> Open button to open an existing Microsoft Excel document. Note: In our case, we are going to open an existing Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Press the Alt + P + G keys together from the keyboard to open the Sheet Background dialog box. Browse the background that you want to be set on the Excel document and click on the Insert button at the bottom of the Sheet Background dialog box. Step 4: Now, you can see that your preferred background is added to the Microsoft Excel document. Step 5: Go to the Page Layout tab on the ribbon and untick the checkbox associated with the View in the Sheet Options group to remove gridlines from the background and makes background more attractive. See the screenshot given below. Method 3: Add a background with the Fill color tool Microsoft Excel also allows you to add a background with a fill color tool. In this method, a Fill color picker is used to add the backgroud color. Steps to add a background in Microsoft Excel document A list of steps to add a background in Microsoft Excel document given below - Step 1: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel document in which you want to add a background with the fill color tool. Step 2: Press the Ctrl+A keys from the keyboard to select the whole Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: At the top left corner of the Microsoft Excel document, click on the vertical arrow under the cell selection menu as shown below given screenshot. Step 4: Now, click on the Home tab and click on the Fill color drop-down icon under the Font group. A color picker will appear on the document. Select the color that you want to apply as a background on your Excel document. The screenshot below shows that your selected background color is applied to the Microsoft Excel document. Method 4: Add printable background in Excel Microsoft Excel helps you to add the printable background images in the Microsoft Excel document with its Insert Watermark feature. This is quickest the method to insert the background image or text Watermark in the spreadsheet based on your requirement. Steps to add a printable background in Excel A list of steps to add a printable background in Excel is discussed below - Step 1: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel spreadsheet in which you want to add a printable background. Step 2: Click on the Insert tab next to the Home tab and then click on the Shapes drop-down icon in the illustrations group. A list of shapes will appear on the document, select a rectangle shape, see the below screenshot. Step 3: Draw a shape in your spreadsheet as large as you required. Step 4: The Drawing Tools is active and appears at the top of the spreadsheet. Click on the Shape Fill button, and select the color that you want to fill in the shape. Note: In our case, we fill the shape with the white color. Step 5: Now, click on the Shape Outline option. A color picker will appear on the screen in which select your desired outline color that you want to apply to the shape. Step 6: Right-click on the shape, a small dialog box pops up with the list of options. Click on the Format Shape option. Step 7: A Format Picture dialog box will appear on the screen in which do the following - Click on the Fill option from the left pane. Click on the Picture or texture fill radio button. Click on the File button in the Insert from: section to browse the image that you want to use as a background image. Tick on the Tile picture as texture checkbox. Add Transparency based on your requirement. Now, click on the close button at the bottom of the Format Picture dialog box. The screenshot below shows that your desired background is set to the Microsoft Excel document. Next TopicHow to use COUNTIF function in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
