https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/g-fact-86/
What does 'Space Complexity' mean? - GeeksforGeeks
What does 'Space Complexity' mean? - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Analysis of Algorithms | Set 2 (Worst, Average and Best Cases) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 3 (Asymptotic Notations) Analysis of Algorithms | Set 4 (Analysis of Loops) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 4 (Solving Recurrences) Analysis of Algorithm | Set 5 (Amortized Analysis Introduction) What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms NP-Completeness | Set 1 (Introduction) A Time Complexity Question Merge Sort QuickSort HeapSort Binary Heap Time Complexity of building a heap Applications of Heap Data Structure Binomial Heap Fibonacci Heap | Set 1 (Introduction) Fibonacci Heap – Insertion and Union Fibonacci Heap – Deletion, Extract min and Decrease key Leftist Tree / Leftist Heap K-ary Heap Iterative HeapSort Analysis of Algorithms | Set 1 (Asymptotic Analysis) Understanding Time Complexity with Simple Examples Complexity of different operations in Binary tree, Binary Search Tree and AVL tree What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 24 Feb, 2021 Space Complexity: The term Space Complexity is misused for Auxiliary Space at many places. Following are the correct definitions of Auxiliary Space and Space Complexity. Auxiliary Space is the extra space or temporary space used by an algorithm. Space Complexity of an algorithm is total space taken by the algorithm with respect to the input size. Space complexity includes both Auxiliary space and space used by input. For example, if we want to compare standard sorting algorithms on the basis of space, then Auxiliary Space would be a better criteria than Space Complexity. Merge Sort uses O(n) auxiliary space, Insertion sort and Heap Sort use O(1) auxiliary space. Space complexity of all these sorting algorithms is O(n) though. Space complexity is a parallel concept to time complexity. If we need to create an array of size n, this will require O(n) space. If we create a two dimensional array of size n*n, this will require O(n2) space. In recursive calls stack space also counts. Example : int add (int n){
    if (n <= 0){
        return 0;
    }
    return n + add (n-1);
}

Here each call add a level to the stack :

1.  add(4)
2.    -> add(3)
3.      -> add(2)
4.        -> add(1)
5.          -> add(0)

Each of these calls is added to call stack and takes up actual memory.
So it take O(n) space. However just because you have n calls total doesn’t mean it takes O(n) space. Look at the below function : int addSequence (int n){
    int sum = 0;
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++){
        sum+ = pairSum(i, i+1);
    }
    return sum;
}

int paiSem(int x, int y){
    return x + y;
}

There will be roughly O(n) calls to pairSum. However, those 
calls do not exist simultaneously on the call stack,
so you only need O(1) space. Note: It’s necessary to mention that space complexity depends on a variety of things such as the programming language, the compiler, or even the machine running the algorithm. Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above. Attention reader! Don’t stop learning now. Get hold of all the important DSA concepts with the DSA Self Paced Course at a student-friendly price and become industry ready. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous Analysis of Algorithm | Set 5 (Amortized Analysis Introduction) Next last_page Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Recommended Articles Page : Time Complexity of Euclidean Algorithm 24, Mar 21 Scheduling in Greedy Algorithms 18, Feb 21 Design Classes 02, Feb 21 Subdomain takeover from scratch to advance 01, Feb 21 Concepts of hamming distance 29, Jan 21 Application and uses of Quicksort 29, Jan 21 Method of guessing and confirming 20, Jan 21 What is algorithm and why analysis of it is important? 12, Jan 21 Working and need of Mo's Aalgorithm 06, Jan 21 Time complexities of different data structures 29, Dec 20 Examples of Big-O analysis 23, Nov 20 The Slowest Sorting Algorithms 05, Nov 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : tripathipriyanshu1998 user_qa7r Article Tags : Analysis Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Analysis Practice Questions on Time Complexity Analysis Analysis of Algorithms | Big-O analysis Analysis of different sorting techniques Complexity Analysis of Binary Search Tail Recursion More related articles in Analysis Difference between Big Oh, Big Omega and Big Theta Analysis of Algorithms | Set 5 (Practice Problems) Measure execution time with high precision in C/C++ Analysis of algorithms | little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
