https://www.javatpoint.com/jmeter-tutorial
JMeter Tutorial - javatpoint
JMeter Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home JMeter Java PHP ASP.NET ADO.NET C# HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training JMeter Tutorial JMeter Tutorial Basic Terminology JMeter Installation Build JMeter Test Plan JMeter Test Plan Test Plan Elements JMeter Test Plan JMeter Thread Group JMeter Controllers JMeter Listeners JMeter Timers Configuration Elements Pre-Processor Elements Post-Processor Elements JMeter Functions JMeter Advance Database Test Plan Web Test Plan FTP Test Plan Web Service API Test Plan JMS Test Plan JMS Point-to-Point Test Plan JMS Topic Test Plan Distributed Load Test Recording Login Test next ? JMeter Tutorial JMeter tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of JMeter. Our JMeter tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. JMeter is an open-source Java application to analyze the performance of web application. Our JMeter tutorial includes all topics of JMeter such as installation, Test Plan, Controllers, Listeners, Timers, ThreadGroup, etc. What is JMeter? JMeter also known as 'Apache JMeter' is an open source, 100% java based application with a graphical interface. It is designed to analyse and measure the performance and load functional behaviour of web application and variety of services. JMeter is mainly used for testing Web application or FTP application but currently, it is applicable in functional testing, JDBC database connections, Web services, generic TCP connections and OS native processes. You can perform various testing activities like Performance, Load, Stress, Regression and Functional testing, in order to get accurate performance metrics against your web server. JMeter was originally written and developed by Stefano Mazzocchi of the Apache Software Foundation. It was primarily written to test the performance of Apache JServ(currently known as Apache Tomcat project).Apache redesigned JMeter to enhance the GUI, to add more features and functional testing capabilities. JMeter is not a browser and it doesn't render html pages like any browser does, rather it works on protocol level. Following is a list of protocols supported by JMeter: Web Services - SOAP / XML-RPC Web - HTTP, HTTPS sites 'web 1.0' web 2.0 (ajax, flex and flex-ws-amf) Database via JDBC drivers Directory - LDAP Messaging oriented service via JMS Service - POP3, IMAP, SMTP A web server carries a lot number of applications and users, so it is necessary to know that how capable a web server is to handle simultaneous users or applications. For example; how "javaTpoint" supporting server will perform when a number of users simultaneously access the javaTpoint website - basically have to do performance testing using performance testing tools like JMeter. JMeter Features Some of the most important features of JMeter are listed below: Open source application: JMeter is a free open source application which facilitatesusers or developers to use thesource code for developmentof other applications. User-friendly GUI: JMeter comes with simple and interactive GUI. Support various testing approach: JMeter supports various testing approach like Load Testing, Distributed Testing, and Functional Testing, etc. Platform independent: JMeter is written and developed using java, so it can run on any environment / workstation that accepts a Java virtual machine, for example - Windows, Linux, Mac, etc. Support various server types: JMeter is highly extensible and capable to load the performance test in different server types: Web: HTTP, HTTPS, SOAP, Database: JDBC, LDAP, JMS, and Mail: POP3. Support multi-protocol: JMeter supports protocols such as HTTP, JDBC, LDAP, SOAP, JMS, and FTP. Simulation: JMeter can simulate multiple users by using virtual users or unique users in order to generate heavy load against web application under test. Framework: JMeter is a multi-threading framework which allows concurrent and simultaneous sampling of different functions by many or separate thread groups. Remote distributed testing: JMeter has Master-Slave concept for distributed testing where master will distribute tests among all slaves and slaves will execute scripts against your server. Test result visualization: Test results can be viewed in different formats like graph, table, tree, and report etc. Working of JMeter JMeter sends requests to a target server by simulating a group of users. Subsequently, data is collected to calculate statistics and display performance metrics of the target server through various formats. JMeter work flow Diagram: Prerequisite Before learning JMeter, you must have the basic knowledge of Java. Audience Our JMeter tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problem We assure that you will not find any problem in this JMeter tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post it in the contact form. Next TopicJMeter Basic Terminology next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
