https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cprogramming/index.htm
C Tutorial - Tutorialspoint
C Tutorial - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks C Programming Tutorial C - Home C - Overview C - Environment Setup C - Program Structure C - Basic Syntax C - Data Types C - Variables C - Constants C - Storage Classes C - Operators C - Decision Making C - Loops C - Functions C - Scope Rules C - Arrays C - Pointers C - Strings C - Structures C - Unions C - Bit Fields C - Typedef C - Input & Output C - File I/O C - Preprocessors C - Header Files C - Type Casting C - Error Handling C - Recursion C - Variable Arguments C - Memory Management C - Command Line Arguments C Programming useful Resources C - Questions & Answers C - Quick Guide C - Useful Resources C - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who C Tutorial PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion C programming is a general-purpose, procedural, imperative computer programming language developed in 1972 by Dennis M. Ritchie at the Bell Telephone Laboratories to develop the UNIX operating system. C is the most widely used computer language. It keeps fluctuating at number one scale of popularity along with Java programming language, which is also equally popular and most widely used among modern software programmers. Why to Learn C Programming? C programming language is a MUST for students and working professionals to become a great Software Engineer specially when they are working in Software Development Domain. I will list down some of the key advantages of learning C Programming: Easy to learn Structured language It produces efficient programs It can handle low-level activities It can be compiled on a variety of computer platforms Facts about C C was invented to write an operating system called UNIX. C is a successor of B language which was introduced around the early 1970s. The language was formalized in 1988 by the American National Standard Institute (ANSI). The UNIX OS was totally written in C. Today C is the most widely used and popular System Programming Language. Most of the state-of-the-art software have been implemented using C. Hello World using C Programming. Just to give you a little excitement about C programming, I'm going to give you a small conventional C Programming Hello World program, You can try it using Demo link. Live Demo #include <stdio.h>

int main() {
   /* my first program in C */
   printf("Hello, World! \n");
   
   return 0;
}
 Applications of C Programming C was initially used for system development work, particularly the programs that make-up the operating system. C was adopted as a system development language because it produces code that runs nearly as fast as the code written in assembly language. Some examples of the use of C are - Operating Systems Language Compilers Assemblers Text Editors Print Spoolers Network Drivers Modern Programs Databases Language Interpreters Utilities Audience This tutorial is designed for software programmers with a need to understand the C programming language starting from scratch. This C tutorial will give you enough understanding on C programming language from where you can take yourself to higher level of expertise. Prerequisites Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a basic understanding of Computer Programming terminologies. A basic understanding of any of the programming languages will help you in understanding the C programming concepts and move fast on the learning track. Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
