https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/5-guidelines-for-software-developers-to-perform-better-in-their-job/
5 Guidelines For Software Developers to Perform Better in Their Job - GeeksforGeeks
5 Guidelines For Software Developers to Perform Better in Their Job - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Socket Programming in C/C++ GET and POST requests using Python Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Fast I/O for Competitive Programming 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Differences between Procedural and Object Oriented Programming Working with csv files in Python Types of Software Testing Working with PDF files in Python OOPs | Object Oriented Design Technical Scripter Event 2020 By GeeksforGeeks XML parsing in Python Difference between FAT32, exFAT, and NTFS File System Supervised and Unsupervised learning Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid 30 Days to Form a New Habit of Coding – Are You In? Frontend vs Backend GATE CS 2021 (Revised) Syllabus Twitter Sentiment Analysis using Python Getting started with Machine Learning Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? Socket Programming in C/C++: Handling multiple clients on server without multi threading Implementing Web Scraping in Python with BeautifulSoup Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 5 Guidelines For Software Developers to Perform Better in Their Job Last Updated : 04 Apr, 2021 If you have spent some time in software development then there is a question for you… Where do you spend most of your time? Do you spend most of the time writing the code? (of course not) A lot of time an experienced developer spends in thinking about the big picture or design of the software. They review the code, refactor the old code, fix the bug, read the code of other developers, or spend more time learning the new library or frameworks which are needed in their job. In short, they write less code and spend more time thinking about good software design (here we mean ‘good’ software, not just software) and making a plan to build it. If you have spent some time in the industry then deep down you better know that there is no perfect software, it can only be good enough depending on the deadlines. Sometimes you spend more time optimizing the things, sometimes refactoring the code or fixing the bug created by junior developers. In the end, no matter what you do, you’re always focused on building perfect software (as much as possible) within a given deadline. There is a difference between writing the code for software and writing the code for good software. When you exhibit the quality of a developer who writes the code for good software then you might have followed best practices, engineering principles, coding standards, or some guidelines given by your senior developers. Today in this blog we will talk about a few guidelines which are essential to learning for every junior developer (of course you want to become a great engineer, not just an engineer). These guidelines will help you to build good software and perform better in your job. Before we go ahead keep in mind one thing… “Software never was perfect and won’t get perfect. But is that a license to create garbage? The missing ingredient is our reluctance to quantify quality.” -Boris Beizer 1. Clever Optimization With Code Readability As we have discussed that developers spend most of their time reading the code not writing it. Most of the time they need to debug the application, check the commits done by other developers, or reading about building a new feature they need to add to their software. They take care of the code readability and pay attention to writing the code which is easy to understand and easy to modify even if they need to write longer variable and function names. Writing more lines of code is completely acceptable if it’s easy to understand and modify. For example, declare a variable name ‘distanceInMeters’ instead of ‘distance’. This variable name makes more sense even if it requires a bit of extra typing. You won’t have to spend time looking around the codebase to find out the unit for the distance variable. A lot of developers write one solution in the codebase (just to avoid adding extra lines of code or optimize the code) which sometimes becomes difficult to understand for other coders. The above solution might be a bit difficult for other developers to understand. These one-liner solutions or these kinds of optimizations are useful when you’re the sole contributor to your project. Avoid adding it to a codebase if multiple contributors are there. 2. Code Revision Ask a developer, and they will let you know that how revision control has saved them multiple times when something went wrong in their codebase. No matter, whether you’re a sole contributor to your small project or you’re working with multiple developers on a big project, revision control has become an essential tool to use in enterprises. Before working on any new feature or adding some code in the codebase make sure that you take the code revision first. Who did what, what commits have been done, what has been deleted, what has been added, what has been updated, etc. In short, keep track of all the changes. Keeping the track of various stages of development helps you to resolve the issues during the development of your application. If your application doesn’t behave as expected or the code breaks then you can go back to the stable version of the application and find out what’s causing the problem. Revision control also allows the developers to work on a project simultaneously without disrupting the stable version which has been already released for users. Git (the most popular one), SVN, CVS Version Control, Mercurial, and a lot of version controls are available to work on your project. 3. Verify and Validate the Application You spend several days working on an application, you keep adding the features in your application, and finally, you shipped it. How would you feel if you listen that the product doesn’t meet the specific requirement? You need to do major changes to your application because it doesn’t meet customer’s expectations. This issue is common in software development. Doing major changes in the application is also a frustrating thing for developers. To avoid this issue verify and validate your application throughout the various stages of development and iterations. Ship your product in small releases instead of one bigger release. Do not ship the product in the end when everything is done. Verification: Make a good practice to evaluate and verify your product at different stages of development. Check if the application meets the specified requirement or not. Check if it is aligned to the design specifications or not Validation: Sometimes developers misunderstand the product specification and requirement. They focus on building the product and later when the product gets shipped, they hear the issues from the users that the software doesn’t meet the requirements and it’s not built as expected. The above issue is common in software development. To avoid this issue validate your software. Validate and determine, if the product meets the user’s expectations or not? Is the product is built as per requirement or not? Both of the above processes have a single goal…your software should be aligned with the features proposed originally. To ensure this thing experienced developers follow the V model in the software development lifecycle. V model is developed by experts that shows how verification and validation happen at different stages of software development. V model is helpful in identifying the unnecessary requirements. Below is a quick diagram of the V model to understand both the processes in a better way. 4. Code Refactoring and TDD Bug…the most important part of every developer’s life. How do you fix the bug in your code (we know you hate it when testers find a lot of bugs in your code)? You might have been using different techniques, tools, and approaches to fix the bug in your code. One of the best ways to fix the bug in your code is TDD which as introduced by Kent Beck (American Software Engineer) Let’s take a look at the steps given below to understand the idea and process of TDD in software development. 1. When you’re going through the various stages and iterations of development, come up with the tests the could possibly break the code. Apply the tests in your code and check if the test breaks the code or not? If your code breaks then you need to come up with a solution that can fix the code. Write enough code to fix it. If your code doesn’t break then try a different test 2. Once you come up with the solution for a specific test (code that fixes the specific test), test your code. Your code needs to be corrected if at least one test fails. Move on to code refactoring if your code passes all the tests. 3. Once you’re done with the above step refactor your code. Basically in refactoring you remove the unnecessary thing from your code and you make your code more organizable. You improve the overall structure of your code without affecting the external behavior or functionality of the application. After refactoring, repeat the same process until or unless you’re not finished with all the ‘break cases’. 5. Comments and Project Documentation Your code should be self-explanatory with fewer comments. Add comments wherever it’s important but do not add unnecessary comments. Also, make sure that you update the comments whenever you make changes in the code (a lot of programmers neglect this thing). Comments in your code should be about why not how. Refactor your code if in the comments you need to explain how your code works. Also understand that code alone is not always enough to explain why you chose a specific approach to solve a problem. In those cases, comments are helpful to describe it. Coming to the project documentation part, so it’s essential to describe why and how your code is relevant for the users. Documentations are very helpful for the users and for the developers who want to contribute to your code. README file is one of the best ways to document your project. When a user interacts with your project first time, this file helps them in understanding everything about your project. Explain what your project does, list all the dependencies, and provide detailed instruction on how to work on the project. Final Note We can list out many tips to perform better in your job as a software developer but being a software developer collaborate with other developers especially senior engineers. They will let you know what mistakes they did, and they will show you the right path. Don’t get hesitated to ask for help when you need it. Being a software developer is not just about sitting for 10 hours writing a bunch of code. You will have to follow several approaches and techniques to become a good engineer (not just an engineer). When you have a problem and you can’t solve it, walk away from your computer. You will find some of the best solutions when you’re not at the machine. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous 5 Reasons Why Learning Coding is Beneficial For Students Recommended Articles Page : Job Scope for Android Developers 25, Mar 21 Coding Standards and Guidelines 02, Jul 19 Blog | Programming Guidelines 20, May 19 Things every final year student should do to get a job in their dream company 29, Oct 18 7 Most Recommended Programming Habits for Software Developers 31, May 19 Career Paths For Software Developers and Programmers in 2019 19, Jul 19 Design Patterns : A Must Skill to have for Software Developers in 2019 16, Aug 19 Websites and Software that help HTML, CSS And JavaScript Developers 20, Aug 20 Imposter Syndrome In Software Developers: Am I A Fake Developer? 02, Dec 19 Tips For Software Developers To Maintain Focus 07, Mar 21 Challenges of Software Developers 15, Jun 20 SQL vs NoSQL: Which one is better to use? 16, May 19 Debugging: Tips To Get Better At It 03, Sep 19 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? 05, Oct 19 7 Tips To Write Clean And Better Code in 2020 16, Dec 19 Best 5 Strategies to Build Better & Worthwhile Professional Relationships 26, May 20 Types of Monitor Panels and Which One is Better? 05, Jun 20 GTX vs RTX - Which is better? 28, May 20 Why is it Better to Learn to Code on a Whiteboard? 03, Jul 20 Artificial Intelligence Could be a Better Doctor 12, Jun 20 7 Best Practices to Build a Better LinkedIn Profile 09, Nov 20 Online vs Offline - Which One is Better for GATE Preparation? 02, Dec 19 Optimize Windows OS for Better Performance 05, Jan 21 How Blazor Framework is Better Than JavaScript Frameworks? 17, Feb 21 Article Contributed By : anuupadhyay @anuupadhyay Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GBlog TechTips Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in GBlog How To Prepare For InfyTQ (Infosys Certification Exam)? Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top 10 Python Developers Skills That You Must Know How Git Version Control Works? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? Most visited in TechTips GTX vs RTX - Which is better? Setting up the environment in Java Running Python script on GPU. How to Run a Python Script using Docker? 'dd' command in Linux Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
