https://www.javatpoint.com/interjection
Interjection | What is Interjection - javatpoint
Interjection | What is Interjection - javatpoint ? Home Definitions Reasoning Aptitude Verbal Ability GK Programs Projects Interview Q Java JSP Android C# HTML CSS jQuery Training Definitions Antibiotics Definition Conjunction Definition Corrosion Definition Deforestation Definition Pressure Definition Viscosity Definition Water Pollution Definition Even Numbers Definition Kinetic Energy Definition Anemia Definition Blood Pressure Definition Stress Definition Asynchronous Definition Entropy Definition Real Numbers Definition Frame Definition Sonar Definition Asthma Definition Cancer Definition Epidemic Definition Analog Definition Humidity Definition Parasite Definition Reproduction Definition Advertising Definition Disaster Definition Interjection Definition Precipitation Definition Sublimation Definition Surface Tension Definition Enzyme Definition next ? ? prev Interjection Interjection is a word or expression that comes as an expression on its own and expresses an unexpected feeling or reaction. Interjections are used in a sentence (usually at the beginning) to express emotions such as excitement, enthusiasm, surprise, disgust, and joy. They are normally accompanied by a mark of exclamation (or comma). It's a diverse category that includes several different parts of speech, like exclamations (ouch!, wow!), greetings (hey, bye), markers of hesitation (uh, um), curses (damn!), response particles (okay, oh!, huh?), and other terms (stop, cool). Interjection's category partly overlaps with a few other categories due to their diverse nature: profanity, fillers, and discourse markers. The usage and descriptive discussion of interjections can be traced back centuries to the Greek and Latin Modistae. Features of Interjections The following are the features of interjections that make them unique: Interjections are generally not meaningful in the structure of the sentence. Interjections are sudden, so we can't change them. Interjections are an indication of the mood of the conversation. Interjections are exclamations, which do not affect the rest of the sentence. Interjections are mostly used during the verbal conversation, and they are sudden gestures that we might show in order to communicate our thoughts or emotions, and sometimes those words do not make sense. Using interjections during formal communication is unacceptable. Types of Interjection When there are feelings and emotions, there are many interjections in languages. The following are the types of interjection words and phrases, including joy, sorrow, greeting, surprise, attention, approval, and calling: Interjection for joy These joy interjections are used to indicate the immediate emotions and feelings of happiness on a sudden happy event that happens. These interjections may include Hurray!, Wow!, Hurrah!, and many more. Let's take some examples: Hurray! India won the match against Pakistan. Wow! He is very beautiful. Hurrah! We've got another gift. Interjection for sorrow Sorrow interjection is used in a sentence to convey the feeling of sorrow over something bad that has happened, like alas, ah, oh, ouch, etc. Let's take some examples: Ouch! I've too much pain. Ah! The pain of surgery. Interjection for greeting Greeting interjections are used to express the emotion of warmth of the other person when they meet. They include: Hello!, Hey!, Hi! and many more. Let's take some examples: Hello! I am Mike Jackson. Hey! I am happy to see you. Hi! Would you want to sing a song with me? Interjection for Surprise The speaker uses this interjection when he shows a deep sense of surprise over something that happened. These interjections may include Ha!, Hey!, What!, Gosh, Wow, Whoa, Oh!, Ah!, Eh!, and many more. Let's take some examples: What! You failed the exam. Ah! I got a new job. Eh! That sounds very bad. Interjection for attention In the sentence, this type of interjection is used to draw someone's attention. This interjection may include such as look, behold, listen, hush, and many more. Let's take some examples: Look! You are so clever. Listen! I have never tried to copy you. Interjection for Approval and Praise The speaker uses this interjection when he expresses a deep sense of approval and consensus on something that has happened. This interjection may include Bravo!, Brilliant!, Well done!, and many more. Let's take some examples: Well done! You have done your work. Brilliant! You got 99% marks in the exam. Bravo! He got a chance. Interjection for expressing doubt or hesitation When the speaker becomes confused and unsure what to say next, they use the hesitation interjections. These interjections may include Hmm, Uh, Er, and many more. Let's take some examples: Hmm, I am not sure what happened there. Um, I think he wants to ask a question. Interjection for Bidding Farwell The speaker uses these interjections to say good-bye or bye. These interjections may include Bye!, good-bye!, farewell!, and many more. Let's take some examples: Good-bye! We are leaving now. Bye! I have to go now. List of Interjection words There are various interjection words used in the sentences. Some of them are as follows: Yippee, Oh, Ouch, Well done, yum, oops, Alas, Good morning, Fie, Yikes, Aah, Hark, Ahh, Aww, Bingo, Eh, Eww, Hurrah, Uh, Hmm, Um, Bravo, Oops, Hello, Er, Ugh, Wow, Shh, Hey, Well, What, Hmph, Whew, Hush, Yeah, Ah, Hi, Yes, Ouch, Help, Happy Birthday, dear, huh, oy, and many more. Examples of Interjections There are the following examples of the interjections. Yes! I can do it. Well! I have a surprise gift for you. Oh! What's a surprise gift. Good! Now we can play a cricket game. Hey! Get lost from here. Next TopicPrecipitation Definition ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
