https://www.javatpoint.com/how-many-rows-and-columns-in-excel-2007
How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 - javatpoint
How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007? The number of rows, columns, cells, and sheets supported by a spreadsheet depends on the software used and the spreadsheet's data. Rowsrun horizontally and are identified by numbers (1, 2, 3, 4….). Columnsrun vertically and are identified by letters (A, B, C, D….). This is the common question you can expect in an interview that requires excel skills. Many of us have not even looked at the last row or last column in a worksheet because we have never faced the situation we needed to go to the last row or last column. If you have been using Excel 2003 for several years, you will probably be aware of increasing numbers of people or organizations using the latest Excel versions such as 2007, 2010, 2013, or Excel 2016. You may even have been sent Excel workbooks that you can't open with your own version of Excel. The main changes occurred between Excel 2003 and Excel 2007. Therefore, this page discusses some of the major changes between these two versions of Excel. Version Number of Rows and Columns Excel 2003 65,536 rows and 256 columns Excel 2007 and later versions 1,048,576 rows and 16,384 columns One of the main developments in Excel 2007 and later versions of Excel is that Excel now allows more columns and rows. Therefore, Excel's recent versions' ability to handle 1,048,576 rows and 16,384 columns of data is a great advantage for users. Determining the Rows and Column Number To know the number of rows is easy, but it's much more complicated with the column header. How you can quickly determine what the header for column 2000 is by using the following formula. 
=LEFT(ADDRESS(ROW(),A2,2),FIND("$",ADDRESS(ROW(),A2,2),1)-1)
 Step 1: Enter a number of the column into a cell for which you want to find the column header. The column header for the 1000th column is ALL, the column header for the 2000th column is BXX, and so on. Here are some ways or shortcuts to get several rows and columns of a worksheet in Excel, such as: 1. How to get to the last row of a worksheet? Press and hold down the Ctrl and press the down arrow key on the keyboard. You are taken to the bottom row. In the latest versions of Excel, there are 1,048,576 rows. In older versions of Excel (2003 and prior), there were 65,536 rows. 2. How to get to the last column of a worksheet? Press and hold down the Ctrl and press the right arrow key on the keyboard. You are taken to the right-most column. In the latest versions of Excel, this is column XFD, which is 16,384 columns. In older versions of Excel (2003 and prior), the last column was IV which is 256 columns. 3. How many sheets are there in an Excel workbook? By default, there are three sheets in a new workbook in all Excel versions, though users can create as many as their computer memory allows. These three worksheets are named Sheet1, Sheet2, and Sheet3. But it also has an option to add more sheets to the workbook. 4. How many characters can fit into a single cell? The total number of characters a cell can contain is 32,767. 5. How are rows and columns labeled? In all spreadsheet programs, including Microsoft Excel, rows are labeled using numbers (e.g., 1 to 1,048,576). All columns are labeled with letters A through Z, then AA through ZZ, etc. For example, after the letter Z, the next column is AA, AB, AC, ..., AZ, and then incrementing to BA, BB, BC, etc. To identify a cell, give both the column and the row. For example, the first cell is always located in column A, on row 1, so the cell is labeled A1. Main Developments in Excel 2007 Here are some major developments in Excel 2007 and the latest versions of Excel, such as: 1. Conditional Formatting Another major improvement in Excel 2007 is Conditional formatting. Many users of Excel 2003 required the ability to apply more than 3 conditional formats, but this was not possible in Excel 2003. However, in Excel 2007 (and later versions of Excel), you can specify as many conditions as you want, each with a different format. In Excel 2007 and later versions, Conditional formatting can work for cells that satisfy more than one condition. For example, if you specify cells with values ? 10 to have bold text and cells with values ? 10 to have red text, you will find that text in cells containing values exactly equal to 10 will be formatted as bold and red. Also, Excel 2007 offers additional types of conditional formatting. You can illustrate data with charts and lots of colors. They will make attractive and easy-to-understand spreadsheets with Excel's new Data Bars, Color Scales & Icon Sets. These features apply color or symbols to a range of cells, depending upon each cell's value with the rest of the selected range cells. The above example shows conditional formatting Data Bars, Color Scales & Icon Sets applied to 3 columns, each containing 1 to 10. As a final bonus, Excel 2007 introduced the ability to use conditional formatting with pivot tables. 1. Filtering and Sorting by Color In Excel 2003, Filtering and Sorting could be performed by cell values only. However, in recent versions of Excel, you can filter and sort by color. This can be either the font color or the cell background color. 2. Function Nesting Limitations Another useful improvement in Excel 2007 is the level of nesting that can be performed. Excel 2003 only allows 7 levels of nesting of functions, while Excel 2007 allows up to 64 levels of nesting functions. Surely, even the most dedicated Excel user cannot need more nesting levels than 64 levels. 3. Resizable Formula Bar In Excel 2003, if a cell contained a long formula or text string, the formula bar's view would block some of your spreadsheet, which could be inconvenient when the cell was selected. However, Microsoft addressed this problem in Excel 2007 by introducing a resizable formula bar, which extends in line with your cell contents. 4. New Functions Excel 2007 contains several new built-in functions to help you to make your spreadsheet slicker and more efficient. These include the IFERROR Function, the SUMIFS function, and the new statistical AVERAGEIF, AVERAGEIFS, and COUNTIFS functions. Later versions of Excel have been added further to the list of the built-in functions. 5. Increased Memory and Faster Calculations Suppose your work in Excel 2003 has been slowed down by slow calculations when applying functions to large datasets. In that case, you may benefit from the increased memory management that is available in more recent versions of Excel. This was introduced in Excel 2007 when memory management was increased from 1 gigabyte to 2 gigabytes. 6. New User Interface In Excel 2007, the main user interface was restructured into a results-oriented interface. Suppose you have been using Excel 2003 for several years and know exactly where to find the tools and functionality you regularly use. You will almost certainly experience some frustration, to begin with, when you upgrade to a more recent Excel version and have to get used to the new ribbon interface. Restrict Users Action to Minimal Rows and Columns Generally, we don't use all the rows and columns, so we may want to restrict the user's action to minimal rows and columns. For example, assume we need to show only 5 rows and 10 columns, so we show minimal rows and columns by hiding other rows. First, we will hide rows, and then we will hide columns in the following steps. Step 1: Select other rows except for the first 5 rows. To select quickly, first select the 6th row and press the shortcut key "Ctrl + Shift + Down Arrow". It will select all the remaining rows. Step 2: Right-click on the row header and choose Hide, or you can press the shortcut key "Ctrl + 9," and it will hide all the selected rows. Step 3: Now, users can access only 5 rows, but all the 16k + columns, similar select all the columns except the first 10 columns. Step 4: Now right-click on the column header and choose Hide or press the shortcut key "Ctrl + 0" to hide all the selected columns. As you can see above, they can access only 5 rows and 10 columns. Next TopicHow to Search in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
