https://www.javatpoint.com/vi-editor
Vi Editor with Commands - javatpoint
Vi Editor with Commands - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Introduction to Linux Linux Directories Linux Files Linux Man Pages Linux Filters Linux I/O Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Regular Expression Linux Users Linux File Security Linux Shell Expansion Linux Networking Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations vi editor Linux System Admin 100+ Linux Commands Linux Interview next ? ? prev Vi Editor with Commands What is vi The vi editor is elaborated as visual editor. It is installed in every Unix system. In other words, it is available in all Linux distros. It is user-friendly and works same on different distros and platforms. It is a very powerful application. An improved version of vi editor is vim. The vi editor has two modes: Command Mode: In command mode, actions are taken on the file. The vi editor starts in command mode. Here, the typed words will act as commands in vi editor. To pass a command, you need to be in command mode. Insert Mode: In insert mode, entered text will be inserted into the file. The Esc key will take you to the command mode from insert mode. By default, the vi editor starts in command mode. To enter text, you have to be in insert mode, just type 'i' and you'll be in insert mode. Although, after typing i nothing will appear on the screen but you'll be in insert mode. Now you can type anything. To exit from insert mode press Esc key, you'll be directed to command mode. If you are not sure which mode you are in, press Esc key twice and you'll be in command mode. Using vi The vi editor tool is an interactive tool as it displays changes made in the file on the screen while you edit the file. In vi editor you can insert, edit or remove a word as cursor moves throughout the file. Commands are specified for each function like to delete it's x or dd. The vi editor is case-sensitive. For example, p allows you to paste after the current line while P allows you to paste before the current line. vi syntax: 
vi <fileName>
 In the terminal when you'll type vi command with a file name, the terminal will get clear and content of the file will be displayed. If there is no such file, then a new file will be created and once completed file will be saved with the mentioned file name. Linux vi example Let's understand vi through an example: To start vi open your terminal and type vi command followed by file name. If your file is in some other directory, you can specify the file path. And if in case, your file doesn't exist, it will create a new file with the specified name at the given location. Example: 
vi /home/sssit/Downloads/file.txt
 Look at the above snapshot, we are creating a new file file.txt (as this file doesn't exist) and have entered the full path for the directory Downloads. Command mode This is what you'll see when you'll press enter after the above command. If you'll start typing, nothing will appear as you are in command mode. By default vi opens in command mode. Look at the above snapshot, it is blank as it is a new file. To start typing, you have to move to the insert mode. At the end of the terminal window, directory name and file name are displayed. Insert mode To move to the insert mode press i. Although, there are other commands also to move to insert mode which we'll study in next page. Look at the above snapshot, after pressing i we have entered into insert mode. Now we can write anything. To move to the next line press enter. Once you have done with your typing, press esc key to return to the command mode. To save and quit You can save and quit vi editor from command mode. Before writing save or quit command you have to press colon (:). Colon allows you to give instructions to vi. exit vi table: Commands Action :wq Save and quit :w Save :q Quit :w fname Save as fname ZZ Save and quit :q! Quit discarding changes made :w! Save (and write to non-writable file) To exit from vi, first ensure that you are in command mode. Now, type :wq and press enter. It will save and quit vi. Type :wq to save and exit the file. Look at the above snapshot, command :wq will save and quit the vi editor. When you'll type it in command mode, it will automatically come at bottom left corner. If you want to quit without saving the file, use :q. This command will only work when you have not made any changes in the file. Look at the above snapshot, this file is modified and hence on typing :q it displays this message at bottom left corner. The above file can be saved with the command :!q. It discards the changes made in the file and save it. Look at the above snapshot, we have typed :!q, it will save our file by discarding the changes made. Vi Commands Linux vi editor is different from other editors. You have to use different keys to use different functions. Although, it's quite easy and interesting to use vi editor. The vi editor commands are case sensitive. Have a look at the vi commands in the following table. To switch from command to insert mode: Command Action i Start typing before the current character I Start typing at the start of current line a Start typing after the current character A Start typing at the end of current line o Start typing on a new line after the current line O Start typing on a new line before the current line To move around a file: Commands Action j To move down k To move up h To move left l To move right To jump lines: Commands Action G Will direct you at the last line of the file `` Will direct you to your last position in the file To delete: Commands Action x Delete the current character X Delete the character before the cursor r Replace the current character xp Switch two characters dd Delete the current line D Delete the current line from current character to the end of the line dG delete from the current line to the end of the file To repeat and undo: Commands Action u Undo the last command . Repeat the last command Command to cut, copy and paste: Commands Action dd Delete a line yy (yank yank) copy a line p Paste after the current line P Paste before the current line Command to cut, copy and paste in blocks: Commands Action <n>dd Delete the specified n number of lines <n>yy Copy the specified n number of lines Start and end of line: Commands Action ? Bring at the start of the current line ^ Bring at the start of the current line $ Bring at the end of the current line d? Delete till start of a line d$ Delete till end of a line Joining lines: Commands Action J Join two lines yyp Repeat the current line ddp Swap two lines Move forward or backward: Commands Action w Move one word forward b Move one word backward <n>w Move specified number of words forward dw Delete one word yw Copy one word <n>dw Delete specified number of words Search a string: Commands Action /string Forward search for given string ?string Backward search for given string /^string Forward search string at beginning of a line /string$ Forward search string at end of a line n Go to next occurrence of searched string /\<he\> Search for the word he (and not for there, here, etc.) /pl[abc]ce Search for place, plbce, and plcce Replace all Syntax: 
:<startLine,endLine> s/<oldString>/<newString>/g
 Example: Commands Action :1,$ s/readable/changed/ Replace forward with backward from first line to the last line :3,6 s/letters/neww/g Replace forward with backward from third line to the ninth line Text buffers: Commands Action "add Delete current line and put text in buffer a "ap Paste the line from buffer a Abbreviation Syntax: 
:ab <abbreviation> <abbreviatedWord>
 Example: Commands Action :ab au abbrevition and unabbreviation Abbreviate au to be 'abbrevition and unabbreviation' :una au Un - abbreviate au Vi Editor Index Vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Next TopicLinux vi switch ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
