https://www.javatpoint.com/gpu-vs-cpu
GPU Vs CPU | Difference between GPU and CPU - javatpoint
GPU Vs CPU | Difference between GPU and CPU - javatpoint ? Home Computer Fundamentals C Java PHP HTML CSS Bootstrap JavaScript jQuery jQuery UI Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Computer Computer Fundamentals What is Computer History of Computer Types of Computer Computer Components Computer Components Input Devices Output Devices Central Processing Unit Hardware Software Operating System Computer Memory Computer Memory Register Memory Cache Memory Primary Memory RAM ROM Secondary Memory Memory Units Computer Network Computer Network Computer Virus Computer Virus Number Systems Number Systems Internet Internet Intranet Extranet Website Shortcut Keys Computer Shortcut Keys Terms Windows Computer Ports Program Printers Microphone Monitor Motherboard Incognito Mode Mouse Memory Card What is a CD What is ID ISO What is Character What is a server What is E-mail What is Keyboard What is Remote What is Webcam What is Data What is URL What is keypad What is hub What is File Bytes Exabyte Gb Kilobyte Megabyte Petabyte Terabyte What is HDD What is SSD Memory vs Storage Non-volatile memory What is M.2 SSD How To Reboot A Computer Multi-Level Cell NAND Flash Memory What is lock screen Block Storage USB flash drive VRAM Cloud Hosting CompactFlash card What is WAP? Classification of Memory Hardware vs Software Uses of Computer Uses of Internet What is Abacus Best Proxy Servers SSL vs TLS Web Console What is the GPU LAN vs WAN SSD vs HDD Introduction to Computer Data Migration JEDEC MLC vs TLC vs SLC NAND Flash VirtualBox Installation Num Lock What is a PC What is MAC Continuous Data Protection Persistent Storage What is Bit Software Definition What is a File System When was the first computer invented How many generations of the computer Minicomputer Fourth Generation of Computer Questions How to backup iPhone to Computer How To Flip Computer Screen What is Computer Science How To Speed Up Computer Why is my Computer so slow How much do computer engineers make How to Clean Computer Screen What is Computer Engineering What is Quantum Computing How does a computer work How to Check Computer Specs How to find computer IP address How to find computer name How to wipe a Computer Advantages of the Internet Disadvantages of the Internet Advantages of Computer What are the disadvantages of a computer How to factory reset a computer How to Build a Computer How to Post on Instagram from Computer How much do Computer Programmers make How to Fax from Computer How much does a computer cost How To Change Computer Name How to Connect Computer to TV How To Connect Printer To Computer What is Computer Programming How To Download Music From YouTube To Computer What is Edge Computing How To Download YouTube Videos To Computer How To Authorize A Computer on iTunes How To Connect Airpods To Computer How To Defrag a Computer Is Computer Science Hard What Does RAM Do In A Computer Who invented the computer How To Change Computer Password How To Hack A Computer How To Download Music To Computer What Does Compute Mean How Does A Quantum Computer Works How to clean Computer How to Edit Your File on Windows, Linux and MacOS How to Set up SSH SOCKS Tunnel for Private Browsing in Windows Small Computer System Interface What is Cyber Law How To Backup Computer How To Scan A Document To Computer How to Transfer Photos from Android to Computer What can you do with Computer Science Degree What is a Desktop Second Generation of Computer Third Generation of Computer Fourth Generation of Computer Fifth Generation of Computer input vs output device What is USB What is Recycle Bin What is Hybrid Topology Cache Memory vs Virtual Memory What is a storage device What is a Crimping Tool What is HDMI What is a Video Card GPU vs CPU What is a Sound Card Blu-ray vs. DVD What is a Floppy Disk What is a DIP Switch What is a Template History of Computer Networking What is a Firmware What is a Hard Copy MCQ Computer Fundamental MCQ Interview Questions HR Interview next ? ? prev GPU Vs CPU | Difference between GPU and CPU The GPU and CPU both are silicon-based microprocessors developed from a different perspective. However, they both seem to be very common by their names. But they are substantially different and meant for different roles. Both the CPU and GPU are required devices of any electronic system. The CPU (Central Processing Unit) is a microprocessor used to execute the program instructions and corresponding operations such as arithmetic, logic, I/O, control, etc. It primarily emphasises low latency. In contrast, the GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) is devised to render images, especially in gaming. It primarily focuses on high throughputs. In this section, we will discuss both the GPU and CPU in details. Further, we will see what the differences between them are. What is GPU GPU is abbreviated as Graphics Processing Unit, used to render the images mainly in computer games. It provides high -throughputs to allow faster performance in gaming. It is incorporated with electronic device's components for sharing RAM with them. A GPU requires more ALU units than a CPU; that's why we must have a dedicated GPU for achieving high performance in gaming. It is a required device to perform high-end graphics processing. The GPU contains its own RAM, known as VRAM (Video RAM). The advanced GPU systems work cooperatively with the multi-core CPUs. In the 1980s, the first Graphics unit was introduced by Intel and IBM. At that time, these GPU cards were obsessed the functionality such as area filling, manipulation of simple images, shape drawing, etc. But modern GPUs are much more than those GPUs. The modern GPUs are most widely used for Gaming, research, and analysis tasks. Even they are surpassing CPUs because of their extreme parallel processing. It holds several processing units where no cache coherency exists. What does a GPU do? In earlier days, GPUs were developed to accelerate the execution of 3D graphics. But now, by enhancing their capabilities, they became more advanced, flexible and programmable. Nowadays, the graphics programmer can create more interesting and realistic visual effects and scenes using its advanced lighting and shadowing techniques. Also, GPUs are widely used in high-performance computing, Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Gaming, and many more fields. What is CPU The CPU is abbreviated as Central Processing Unit, most commonly referred to as "Processor". It carries out and controls the computer instructions by performing arithmetic, logic, and input/output operations. It is an integral part of the computer system that receives the instruction forwarded by the computer programs and processes it. Due to its importance on a computer system, it is called "Brain", or "Heart" of the Computer. It also plays a vital role in Gaming. A CPU interacts with other computer components such as input, output, and memory to perform instructions. The CPU processor is known as the core. The older CPUs were single-core CPUs, but the modern CPUs have cores between 2 to 28. The single core CPUs was focused on a single task. But latest multi-core CPUs can handle multitasking easily. The two core CPU processors are known as dual core, and the four core CPU processors are known as Quad Core processors. What Does a CPU do? A CPU or Processor is an integral part of any computer system. It allows a computer to interact with all its applications and programs. It takes instructions from a program and processes them. It takes the instructions in a machine language, interprets them, and creates the output in a human-readable format. Key Differences Between a GPU and CPU The following are some key differences between a GPU and CPU: A GPU is devised to render images, especially in gaming. In contrast, the CPU is used for executing the program instructions according to operations such as arithmetic, logic, I/O, control, etc. The GPU primarily optimized for throughput, whereas the CPU primarily focuses on low-latency. A single GPU consists of thousands of cores that are clocked at a frequency of approximate 1GHz of frequency. On the other hand, a CPU contains less-number of cores that are clocked at a frequency of 2-3 GHz. The parallel data operation can be performed in GPUs due to the high number of cores, which is not possible in the CPU as it contains a smaller number of cores. A GPU provides a very high processing speed and suitable for bigger applications; on the other hand, a CPU provides slow processing speed and suitable for small applications. The memory requirement for GPUs is low, whereas the memory requirement for CPU is high compared to GPUs. Difference Chart between GPU and CPU GPU CPU The full form of GPU is the Graphics Processing Unit. The full form of CPU is the Central Processing Unit. A GPU contains a thousand number of weak cores. CPU contains very less but powerful cores. The processing speed of the GPU is very high. The processing speed of the CPU is less compared to GPU. The memory requirement in GPU is less. The memory requirement in CPUs is more. GPU is best used for Parallel instruction processing rather than serial instruction processing. CPU is best used for Serial Instruction processing rather than parallel instruction processing. The clock frequency is about 1 GHz. The clock frequency is about 2-3 GHz. It mainly emphasizes high throughput. It mainly emphasizes on Low latency. A GPU is a special-purpose processor. A CPU is a general-purpose processor. GPU vs CPU: which is more suitable for Gaming? Nowadays, gaming has become a powerful application and hence requires powerful processors. So, between GPU & CPU, which processor is more suitable for gaming applications. The answer is both GPU and CPU are important, and some games require both GPU & CPU. The requirement also varies as per the type of gaming. How GPU and CPU work together? A CPU can be used together with the GPU to achieve a high throughput of data. It also increases the concurrent calculations within an application. GPUs were designed to develop images for computer graphics and games, but now they can be used to accelerate the calculations and processing of a high amount of data. The GPU can never replace a CPU as the CPU is the general-purpose processor, whereas GPU can be used for some special purpose application and mainly for computation tasks. Conclusion As per the above discussion, we can say that GPU & CPU are equally important and serve different purposes. Neither CPU nor GPU can replace each other, and an efficient computing machine requires both to run properly. Next TopicWhat is a Sound Card ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
