https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bridge-the-gap-between-engineering-and-your-dream-job-complete-interview-preparation/
Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job - Complete Interview Preparation - GeeksforGeeks
Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job - Complete Interview Preparation - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Removing stop words with NLTK in Python Naive Bayes Classifiers Linear Regression (Python Implementation) Apriori Algorithm Supervised and Unsupervised learning Confusion Matrix in Machine Learning Reinforcement learning Decision Tree Decision Tree Introduction with example Decision tree implementation using Python Getting started with Machine Learning KDD Process in Data Mining Best Python libraries for Machine Learning K means Clustering - Introduction Python | Mean Squared Error Clustering in Machine Learning Underfitting and Overfitting in Machine Learning K-Nearest Neighbours Understanding Logistic Regression Digital Image Processing Basics ML | Linear Regression ML | Label Encoding of datasets in Python How to Run a Python Script using Docker? Data Normalization in Data Mining Pattern Recognition | Introduction Python | Implementation of Polynomial Regression Artificial Intelligence | An Introduction ML | Types of Learning – Supervised Learning Difference between Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job – Complete Interview Preparation Difficulty Level : Easy In India, lakhs of students enroll themselves in engineering colleges every year to establish a successful career in the engineering discipline. And why not, as engineering has always been responsible for opening the doors of various lucrative career opportunities in the job market. However, if we take a look at several facts & figures in recent times, it shows something different: As per the reports, approx. 72% of engineering graduates haven’t got any job opportunities during campus placement for the session 2019-20. Also, according to a survey report of 1000 candidates, only 26-27% of individuals are confident of landing up a job with their desired package as per their skills. Now, many of us would think that these stats are showing the lack of job opportunities, right…? A big NO! Are There Enough Job Opportunities for Tech Graduates? However, it is quite true that there is a massive crowd of engineering students every year who compete with each other for landing up a job in their dream company but no one can also deny this fact the job opportunities in the tech world are growing exponentially. Either we talk about leading IT giants such as Google, Facebook, Microsoft, etc. or any startup company, they all are coming with numerous career opportunities regularly in various domains and technologies for the students. So, if there exists both – engineers and job opportunities, why unemployability rate is still rising among the tech graduates, and where the problem lies…? Let’s make it clear — the problem lies in the approach itself. It can be understood as, according to the organizations, more than 70% of tech graduates are actually not employable because of the lack of required skill set in the industry. Despite following the 4-year engineering curriculum, students don’t find themselves in a position with having industry-related and practical knowledge required for placements. However, there is nothing wrong with the engineering curriculum as it gives you vast exposure to various subjects and areas of computer science but it is up to you to equip yourself with the relevant skillset that is required to get job opportunities. Before moving further, take a look at the below-mentioned stats of tech graduates: Around 40% of engineers in India aren’t able to write error-free and clean code. Among all the students, only 42-45% of engineering students do some worthwhile internships and projects. Nearly 3-4% of engineers in India possess new-age tech skills such as AI, ML, etc. Now, you can understand why there is a need for the students to have a specific approach towards the job market and prepare themselves with an appropriate skillset that can ensure them the desired job in their dream company that too with an effective salary package. How to Make Yourself Industry-Ready? But again, the question arises – how can a student equip himself with the required skill set for the jobs? So, there should be a strategical approach behind this placement preparation such as firstly you need to identify which subjects or tech skills are having most weightage during placements. Then you need to look out for worthwhile content and resources to accordingly upskill yourself. You also need to practice your skills before actual interviews, guidance from the mentors or industry-experts, and several other processes. And wait…would not it be great if you can get to cover all these placement preparation strategies & resources in a single place? Yes, you can!!! With the help of the Complete Interview Preparation Course offered by GeeksforGeeks, you can excel in your interview preparation as the course consists of almost everything that you would need to get into your dream job and that too within much affordable price. And yes, if you’re considering it similar to one of those thousands of courses available over the web then you must look into the details of the course, mentioned below, to get all your doubts clear. The GeeksforGeeks Complete Interview Preparation course is a one-stop solution for the students (and for working professionals as well!!) that consists of every single requirement of yours for placement preparation. You’ll be provided with premium lectures, theory, practice tests, assessment tests, and much more that can help you to land up your dream job. The course is extensively designed in such a way that it focuses more on the smart learning process as different subjects hold different weightage during placements. In addition, whether you’re looking for a job in any leading product-based companies, service-based companies, or even startup ventures, this course is here to get you the job you want! Some of the remarkable features of the Complete Interview Preparation course are listed below: 200+ algorithmic coding problems Track-based learning + Weekly assessment tests Premium Lecture videos by Mr. Sandeep Jain (CEO & Founder, GeeksforGeeks) and other industry experts Subject-wise Theoretical content + Objective Questions designed by subject experts. Lifetime access to the Course + Course Completion Certificate Access to the GeeksforGeeks Jobs portal + Internship Opportunities at GeeksforGeeks Above all that, the course is available at a much affordable and discounted price of INR 5999/- (What else you need?) If you want to take the review of the course then you can go through the Testimonials As mentioned above, this is the right time for all the students (especially final year ones!!) to upskill themselves to land up their dream job. Despite wobbling under the pressure of unemployment and rejection by the companies, students need to take a step forward and make them industry-ready by equipping themselves with the required learnings & skillset. And the Complete Interview Preparation course can help you out in this process and can effectively reduce this unwanted gap between engineering and placements!! Attention reader! Don’t stop learning now. Get hold of all the important CS Theory concepts for SDE interviews with the CS Theory Course at a student-friendly price and become industry ready. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous Recently Asked Interview Questions in Product Based Companies Next last_page 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Recommended Articles Page : GeeksforGeeks Complete Interview Preparation Course - Get a Job in your Dream Company! 29, Jun 20 Get Your Dream Job With Amazon SDE Test Series 21, Mar 20 CAT Preparation 2019: A Complete Preparation Package You Require for Cracking CAT 2019 13, Jul 19 Prepare For Your Dream Company With Coding Round Contests Test Series - FREE! 26, Nov 20 Placement 100 : Complete Interview Preparation package you must have this Placement Season 27, Jun 19 Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance - INR 90 Lakh Cashback Pool Offer!! 13, Aug 20 Don't Let Your Geographical Location Be A Barrier In Your Success - Live Classes By GeeksforGeeks 19, Nov 19 How to use Docker Default Bridge Networking? 02, Nov 20 Code Reverse Engineering - How To Reverse Engineer Your Expired Software 09, Jan 20 Switch Your Career to Machine Learning - A Complete Guide 17, Nov 19 Special 21 - Coding Interview Preparation in 21 Days Lockdown 31, Mar 20 Learn OS DBMS CN for SDE Interview Preparation - One Course for All Subjects! 15, Feb 21 CAT 2019 Preparation Strategy : How to Ace the CAT Exam in 4 Months 19, Jul 19 What are the Daily Habits for Successful CAT Preparation? 25, Jul 19 Microsoft SDE Preparation Test Series By GeeksforGeeks 17, Mar 21 Scheduling Cron Job on Google Cloud 27, Dec 20 Making your WordPress Website More Secure 07, Dec 15 Implement your own word2vec(skip-gram) model in Python 18, Jan 19 What Should be your Best Strategy for this Placement Season? 02, Jul 19 Get Ahead of Your Peers With GeeksforGeeks's Live Courses 24, Jan 20 Your No-Nonsense Guide From An Organised Coder - Anuj Kumar Sharma 16, Nov 20 Learn At Your Own Convenience With GeeksforGeeks's Online Courses 21, Feb 20 How to Learn Java Collections - A Complete Guide 21, Aug 20 Difference between Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence 19, Feb 18 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GFG-Update Advanced Computer Subject Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Advanced Computer Subject Understanding Data Attribute Types | Qualitative and Quantitative Q-Learning in Python Classifying data using Support Vector Machines(SVMs) in Python Frequent Item set in Data set (Association Rule Mining) Extendible Hashing (Dynamic approach to DBMS) More related articles in Advanced Computer Subject Buffer Overflow Attack with Example Detect and Recognize Car License Plate from a video in real time An introduction to Machine Learning OLAP Operations in DBMS Python | Decision Tree Regression using sklearn Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
