https://www.javatpoint.com/scrum-meaning
Scrum Meaning - Javatpoint
Scrum Meaning - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Scrum Meaning Scrum is one of the predominant methodologies, or we can conclude it as a framework with which the developers can efficiently address difficult problems. Being a lightweight framework that manages agile projects, it can successfully govern each type of iterative and incremental projects. It emphasizes splitting a complex problem into several small phases whereby making it easier to review and adapt all throughout its way. You can do the following with scrum: With scrum, you can write few plans and do a lot in a short iteration or a circle, which is termed as a sprint. Instead of working in distinct groups, you work as a dedicated team. At the end of an iteration, you can constantly deliver a functioning project. You can actually improvise your project by receiving a constant response from the customers. The primary focus of an agile scrum master is to assign individuals in a cross-functional team along with the desired information, tools, and skills that are required to finish off their job. The scrum master holds much more privilege than a project manager in taking authoritative functions, i.e., managing several different software development processes and stages. From unblocking the obstacles to procuring tools and getting the information shared between teams, the scrum master is seen to perform several different tasks no matter what it takes to complete the project; it keeps everyone on task until it is done. For each project, the scrum master makes sure to perform the following tasks and meetings: Daily Scrum: Just like how the opponent rugby team forms a cluster so that the scrum can restart the game, the scrum master works in a similar manner. It brings the team altogether and conducts the meeting to review the status of the teamwork. It considers the previous day's update, what are those key points to be focused on for that day, and the obstacles restricting them from doing their best at work. Sprint planning: The team comes altogether at the beginning of each "sprint" to have a discussion about the goals of the coming sprint and the items that are going to be a part of this sprint. In order to make sure that everyone is staying on the same page, it provides them with a framework to work from. Sprint Demo: Whenever the sprint ends, the team demonstrates their completed work product for that particular sprint. The purpose behind this meeting is to keep everyone updated and encourage them by giving extra feedbacks, which eventually results in a better product in the end. Financials: In order to keep everyone on track, there are some companies where the team coordination is managed by the scrum master. The scrum master raises the awareness as when things start to run off-course. Status Report: The scrum master provides a detailed overview each week about the project so that it would be easy for everyone to know how far they have reached till date. Critical project decisions: Decision-making is one of the biggest tasks in any project. The scrum master plays a vital role in making quick and smart decisions, which will ultimately result in formulating the conclusion. Since the scrum master comprehends a holistic view related to any particular project, it enables the team in decision-making when the scope, budget, or other elements of the project gets altered. Benefits of Scrum Methodology 1. REVENUE One can incrementally create new features inside the sprint with the help of Scrum. Whenever a sprint is ended, the scrum master facilitates the release of a hypothetically Increment of Software/Product much earlier in the development cycle. Despite waiting for the software to get finalized, it empowers to grasp the benefits in the former stage. 2. QUALITY Scrum plays an essential role in the development cycle of a product, especially when it comes to quality management. It maintains the quality by rigorously testing each sprint whereby it inspects the working of any Product or software on a regular basis as it develops. The scrum team keeps on checking for issues to get them resolved in time without hampering the quality of the product. 3. TRANSPARENCY Both the product owner and stakeholder can actively participate during the product development phase. It is considered to be one of the most transparent approaches, especially when it comes to project management. With the help of this approach, one can easily understand his/her roles and responsibilities. 4. COMMUNICATION AND COLLABORATION In short, we can understand the term daily scrum as short meet-ups that are often held to ensure whole team members have regular interaction, detect roadblocks, resolve problems and assimilate innovative ideas altogether. 5. DELIVER OFTEN VALUE The scrum methodology emphasizes delivering valuable services to its clients, which is one of the main concerns of software project management. 6. PROFITABILITY Each of the scrum attributes pays off by smart working that eventually results in greater efficiency and less wastage. If you withstand all of its ethics as well as ideologies, you will see all these factors bestow high profit. 7. SUSTAINABILITY Scrum is an agile framework that is specifically designed to attain sustainability. The scrum momentum can be easily maintained if it is correctly implemented by its team members. 8. SPEED TO MARKET Research suggests about 80% of all market leaders were first to market. As well as the higher revenue from incremental delivery, agile development supports the practice of early and regular releases. 9. MORE ENJOYABLE The active participation of Scrum team members leads to a healthy work environment. If the people work peacefully, the quality of their work will be more effective and efficient. Scrum framework The scrum framework comprises of the three following categories: Scrum Roles Events in Scrum Scrum Artifacts Scrum Roles Following are the three major roles that are defined within the scrum. The Product Owner: In order to accomplish the desired result, the product owner manages the product backlog. He is the one who motivates the team member to meet their goals without getting distracted from the vision of the project. Since the product owner is the one responsible for taking major decisions regarding the project, he can question anyone anytime. The Scrum Master: The main duty of the scrum master is to look after the team members whether they are following scrum's theories, rules, and practices as they were intended to be or not. The scrum master makes sure that the Scrum Team gets everything they necessitate for completing their work, which may include removal of roadblocks that restricts the progress, organize meetings, and deals with challenges as well as hurdles. The Development Team (Scrum Team): A scrum team is a self-organizing team that aims to deliver goods and services. In order to maximize the effectiveness of the Scrum development team, they are set free to organize themselves and manage their own roles and responsibilities without any hustle. Events in Scrum Mainly there are four events that you will come across throughout the process of the scrum. But before you move ahead, let's discuss "What is Sprint?". Basically, a sprint refers to a particular time period during which the scrum team members generate software products. The four events or ceremonies of Scrum Framework are as follows: Sprint Planning: It is a meeting where the work that has to be completed during a sprint is mapped out. The team members are assigned with certain tasks which are to be performed to meet the desired goal. Daily Scrum: Daily scrum is also called as a stand-up, which conducts a small team meeting for about 15minute where all the team members have an opportunity to come on the same page and discuss a strategy for the next 24 hours. Sprint Review: In the sprint review, the product owner discusses the previous work plans which are yet to be completed or about to complete during that particular sprint. Then, the team members represent the completed task and discuss the difficulties faced by them and how well they handled it. Sprint Retrospective: All through the sprint retrospective, the team discusses both positive and negative outcomes and how they fixed them. Scrum Artifacts Scrum Artifacts refer to the physical data containing all the details of the project, which is required while developing a product. Scrum Artifacts include: Product Backlog: It is a simple document that outlines the list of tasks and every requirement that the final product needs. It is constantly evolving and is never complete. For each individual product in the product backlog, you need to add some additional information like: Description Order based on priority Estimate Value to the business Sprint Backlog: It is the list of all items from the product backlog that need to be worked on during a sprint. Based on some prior skills, the team members proceed to sign up for tasks. It is the actual depiction of the work that has to be completed within the sprint by the team members. Burndown Chart: It is a graphical illustration of the estimated outstanding work. Typically, the amount of remaining work will feature on the vertical axis with time along the horizontal axis. Product Increment: The most important artifact is the product improvement, or in other words, the sum of product work completed during a Sprint, combined with all work completed during previous sprints. How does a Scrum Process Work? Step1: Initially, there is a product owner in the Scrum process who is responsible for creating a product backlog, a list of tasks and requirements required by the end product. It successfully prioritizes the product backlog. Step2: Next, all of the scrum team members get all together to plan for a sprint. After prioritizing the product backlog, the team then decides from where they should actually start working. This is when the subset of product backlog items turns into the sprint backlog. Step3: Then, there is a daily scrum, which is when all of the scrum team members interact with each other during the sprint to encounter progress as well as issues. This is mainly supervised by the scrum master to make sure that all of the scrum theories, rules, and practices are truly followed by the team members. Step4: As when the sprint is ended, the product owner organizes a sprint review meeting. In this meeting, the development team reveals whatever they have accomplished so far since the last sprint. And then, the product owner informs about what is yet to be achieved on the product backlog, followed by the estimated time in which the project has to be completed. Note: At the end of each sprint, the team should have a functioning piece of the product to show for their work. Step5: Next, the scrum team comes all together in a sprint retrospective meeting, where the team discusses what went well, what did not, and how they could have done it in a better way. This might be due to some technical issue or may be a team member is burdened with tasks. The decision-makers decide how to solve such issues and put up a plan to get rid of them in the next sprint. Step6: The cycle repeats for the remaining tasks in the product backlog. This goes on until either of the below-mentioned things happen: The deadline has been reached. The budget is exhausted. The product owner is satisfied with the final product. Next TopicHow to Change root user password ubuntu ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
