https://www.javatpoint.com/embedded-systems-mcq
Embedded Systems MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Embedded Systems MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Embedded Systems Multiple Choice Question Using this Embedded Systems MCQ/Answers, you can crack your college viva/ entrance test and interview with the help of these selected questions. 1) Which design allows the reuse of the software and the hardware components? Memory Design Input design Platform-based design Peripheral design Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Platform-based design ] Description: The software and the hardware can be reused using the platform design to cope with the increasing complexity in creating embedded systems. 2) Which design considers both the hardware and software during the embedded design? Memory Design Software/ hardware codesign Platform-based design Peripheral design Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Software/ hardware codesign ] Description: It will consider both the hardware and software design concerns. It helps in the right combination of the hardware and the software for the efficient product. 3) What does API stand for? Application Programming Interface Address Programming Interface Accessing peripheral through the interface None of them Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Application Programming Interface ] Description: The API stands for Application Programming Interface. It helps in extending the platform towards software applications. 4) Which design activity can be used for the mapping operation to hardware? High-level transformation Scheduling Compilation Hardware / Software partitioning Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Hardware / Software partitioning ] Description: The activity is in charge of mapping operations to the software or the hardware. 5) Which process can be used in analyzing the set of possible designs? Scheduling Design space exploration Hardware / Software partitioning Compilation Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Design Space Exploration ] Description: It is the process of analyzing the set of designs, and the method which meets the specification is selected. 6) What does FRIDGE stand for? the floating-point programming design environment the fixed-point programming design environment floating-point programming decoding fixed-point programming decoding Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Fixed-Point Programming Design Environment ] Description: FRIDGE stands for Fixed-Point programming Design Environment, which can be developed for the optimization programs. 7) Which of the following tool can replace floating-point arithmetic with fixed-point arithmetic? FAT SDS FRIDGE VFAT Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ FRIDGE ] Description: There are specific tools available for the optimization programs. One such tool is the FRIDGE or fixed-point programming design environment, commercially made available by Synopsys System Studio. This tool can be used in the transformation program, converting floating-point arithmetic to fixed-point arithmetic. This is widely used in signal processing. 8) Which of the following can reduce the loop overhead and thus increase the speed? loop tiling Loop unrolling loop fusion loop permutation Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Loop unrolling ] Description: The loop unrolling can reduce the loop overhead, that is, the fewer branches per execution of the loop body, which in turn increases the speed but is only restricted to loops with an endless number of iteration. The unrolling can improve the code size. 9) Which part of the COOL input comprises information about the available hardware platform components? design constraints target technology behavior both behavior and design constraints Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Target Technology ] Description: The codesign tool consists of three input ports described as target technology, design constraints, and behavior. Each input does different functions. The target technology comprises information about the various hardware platform components available within the system. 10) What does Index set L denotes? task graph node processor hardware components task graph node type Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Task Graph Node Type ] Description: The index set is used in the IP or the integer programming model. The Index set KP denotes the processor, I represent the task graph nodes, and L means the task graph node type. 11) Which design can be used to reduce the energy consumption of the embedded system? Simulator Compiler Emulator Debugger Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Compiler ] Description: The compiler can be used to reduce the energy consumption of the embedded system. It performs the available energy optimizations. 12) What is the main ingredient for power optimization? Power Model Energy Model Power Compiler Watt Model Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Power Model ] Description: You can save energy at any stage of the embedded system development. High-level optimization techniques can reduce power consumption. Similarly, compiler optimization can also reduce power consumption, and the essential thing in power optimization is the power model. 13) Who proposed the first power model? Russell Jacome Russel and Jacome Tiwari Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [Tiwari] Description: Tiwari proposed the first power model in the year 1974. The model includes the so-called bases and the inter-instruction instructions. The education's base costs correspond to the energy consumed per instruction execution when an infinite sequence of that instruction is executed. Inter instruction costs model the additional power consumed by the processor if instructions change. 14) Which model is based on precise measurements using real hardware? First power model Encc energy-aware compiler Second Power Model Third power model Show Answer Workspace Answer: encc energy-aware compiler Description: The enccenergy-aware compiler uses the energy model by Steinke et al. it is based on the actual hardware's precise measurements. The power consumption of the memory, as well as the processor, is included in this model. 15) How can one compute the power consumption of the cache? First power model Lee power model CACTI Third power model Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ CACTI ] Description: The CACTI can compute the cache's power consumption, which Wilton and Jouppi proposed in 1996. 16) Which of the following function can interpret data in the C language? Scanf Printf File Proc Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Scanf ] Description: The scanf and printf are the C language functions used to interpret data and print data. 17) Which statement replaces all occurrences of the identifier with string? # include # define identifier string # ifdef # define MACRO() Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ #define identifier string ] Description: # define statement can replace all occurrences of the identifier with string. Similarly, it can determine the constants, which also makes the code easier to understand. 18) Which of the following is also known as loader? Linker Locator Assembler Compiler Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Linker ] Description: The linker is also known as a loader. It can take the object file and searches the library files to find the routine it calls. 19) Which command takes the object file and searches library files to find the routine calls? Emulator Simulator Linker Debugger Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Linker ] Description: The linker is also known as a loader. It can take the object file and searches the library files to find the routine it calls. The linker can give the programmer the final control concerning how unresolved references are reconciled, where the sections are located in the memory, which routines are used, etc. 20) Which of the following language can describe the hardware? C++ C VHDL JAVA Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ VHDL ] Description: The VHDL is the hardware description language that describes the hardware, whereas C, C++, and JAVA are software languages. 21) Which simulator/ debugger is capable of displaying output signal waveform resulting from stimuli applied to the inputs? VHDL emulator VHDL simulator VHDL locator VHDL debugger Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ VHDL Simulator ] Description: The VHDL simulator can display the output signal waveforms that result from the stimuli or trigger applied to the input. 22) What describes the connections between the entity port and the local component? One-to-one map Many-to-one map One-to-many maps Port map Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Port map ] Description: The port map describes the connection between the entity port and the local component. The component is declared by component declaration, and the entity ports are mapped with the port mapping. 23) Which of the following is an abstraction of the signal impedance? Strength Nature Size Level Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Size ] Description: Most of the systems contain electrical signals of different strengths and levels. The signal's level is the abstraction of the signal voltage, and the power is the abstraction of the signal impedance. 24) How many types of wait statements are available in the VHDL design? 4 3 6 5 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ 4 ] Description: There are four kinds of wait statements. These are waiting on, wait for, wait until and wait. 25) Which of the following is a C++ class library? C JAVA SystemC C++ Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ SystemC ] Description: System C is a C++ class library that helps solve behavioral, resolution, simulation time problems. 26) Which C++ class is similar to the hardware description language like VHDL? Verilog C JAVA SystemC Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ SystemC ] Description: SystemC is a C++ class similar to the hardware description languages like VHDL and Verilog. The execution and simulation time in the SystemC is almost identical to the VHDL. 27) Which of the following is standardized as IEEE 1364? C++ C Verilog FORTRAN Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Verilog ] Description: It is a hardware description language. Verilog was developed for modeling hardware and electronic devices. It is then standardized by the IEEE standard 1364. 28) Which of the following is an analog extension of the VHDL? System VHDL VHDL-AMS System Verilog Verilog Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ VHDL-AMS ] Description: The extension of the VHDL includes the analog and mixed behavior of the signals. 29) Which level simulates the algorithms that are used within the embedded systems? Circuit Level Gate Level Algorithmic Level Switch Level Show Answer Workspace Answer: Algorithmic Level Description: It simulates the algorithm which is used within the embedded system. 30) Which of the following models the components like resistors, capacitors, etc.? Layout model Register-transfer level Switch-level model Circuit level model Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Circuit level model ] Description: This simulation can be used for the circuit theory and its components such as the resistors, inductors, capacitors, voltage sources, current sources. This simulation also involves partial differential equations. 31) Which models communicate between the components? fine-grained modeling transaction level modeling circuit-level model coarse-grained modeling Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Transaction level modeling ] Description: The transaction-level modeling is a type of instruction set level model. This modeling helps in the modeling of components which is used for the communication purpose. It also models the transaction, such as read and writes cycles. 32) Which model is used to denote the Boolean functions? gate-level model switch level layout model circuit level Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Gate Level model ] Description: The gate-level model is used to denote the boolean functions, and the simulation only considers the gate's behavior. 33) n which model, the effect of instruction is simulated, and their timing is not considered? circuit model gate-level model layout model coarse-grained model Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ coarse-grained model ] Description: The coarse-grained model is a kind of instruction set level modeling in which only the effect of instruction is simulated, and the timing is not considered. The information which is provided in the manual is sufficient for this type of modeling. 34) Which of the following is a set of specially selected input patterns? debugger pattern test pattern byte pattern bit pattern Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Test pattern ] Description: While testing any devices or embedded systems, we apply some selected inputs known as the test pattern and observe the output. This output is compared with the expected outcome. The test patterns usually are used in the already manufactured systems. 35) Which of the following have flip-flops which are connected to form shift registers? test pattern scan design CRC bit pattern Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Scan Design ] Description: All the flip-flop storing states are connected to form a shift register in the scan design. It is a kind of test path. 36) Which gate is used in the geometrical representation if a single event causes hazards? NOT OR AND NAND Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ OR ] Description: The fault tree analysis is done graphically using gates, mainly AND gates and OR gates. The OR gate is used to represent a single event that is hazardous. Similarly, AND gates are used in the graphical representation if several events cause hazards. 37) Which of the following can compute the exact number of clock cycles required to run an application? coarse-grained model layout model register-transaction model fine-grained model Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ fine-grained model ] Description: The fine-grained model has the cycle-true instruction set simulation. In this modeling, it is possible to compute the exact number of clock cycles required to run an application. 38) Which of the following is possible to locate errors in the specification of the future bus protocol? HOL EMC FOL BDD Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ BDD ] Description: The model checking was developed using the binary decision diagram and the BDD, and it was possible to locate errors in the specification of the future bus protocol. 39) What is CTL? code tree logic CPU tree logic computer tree logic computational tree logic Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [Computational tree logic ] Description: The EMC-system is a popular system for model checking developed by Clark that describes the CTL formulas, also known as computational tree logic. The CTL consist of two parts, a path quantifier and a state quantifier. 40) Which is a top-down method of analyzing risks? FMEA FTA Damages Hazards Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ FTA ] Description: The FTA is Fault tree analysis which is a top-down method of analyzing risks. It starts with damage and comes up with the reasons for the damage. The research is done graphically by using gates. 41) Which of the following microprocessor is designed by Zilog? Zigbee Z80 8087 80386 Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Z80 ] Description: Designed by Zilog in 1976. 80386 and 8087 are the processors designed by Intel, and Zigbee is IEEE based, which is used for high-level communication protocol. 42) How an alternate set of the register can be identified in Z80? 'Prefix 'Suffix , prefix , suffix Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 'Suffix ] Description: To identify the main register and alternate register ' is used in the suffix. 43) What is the purpose of the memory refresh register of Z80? To control on-chip SRAM To control on-chip DRAM To clear cache To control ROM Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ To control on-chip SRAM ] Description: In addition to the general-purpose registers, a stack pointer, program counter, and two index registers are included in Z80. It was also used in many embedded designs because of its high-quality performance and its in-built refresh circuitry for DRAMs. 44) Which signal is used to differentiates the access from a standard memory cycle? RESET HALT IORQ MREQ Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ IORQ ] Description: The IORQ signal is used to differentiate the access from a standard memory cycle. These input/output accesses are similar from a hardware perspective to a memory cycle but only occur when an input/output port instruction is executed. 45) What supports multitasking in 80386? External paging memory management unit Read mode On-chip paging memory management unit Paging and segmentation Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ On-chip paging memory management unit ] Description: Because of the efficient paging mechanism of 80386 in the memory management unit, it supports multitasking. That is, different tasks can be done at a time, a kind of parallel port. 46) Which one of the following is the successor of the 8086 and 8088 processor? 80387 80286 8087 8051 Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 80286 ] Description: 80286 is the successor of 8086 and 8088 because it possesses a CPU based on 8086 and 8088. 8051 is a microcontroller designed by Intel which is commonly known as Intel MCS-51. 8087 is the first floating-point coprocessor of 8086. 47) Which are the two modes of 80286? Mode1 and mode2 Mode A and mode B Real mode and protected mode Alternate and main Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Real mode and protected mode ] Description: It possesses two modes which are called fundamental and protected methods. In natural ways, it adds some additional register to access a size greater than 16MB but still preserves its compatibility with 8086 and 8088. 48) When is the register set gets expanded in 80286? In expanded mode Interrupt mode In real mode In protected mode Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ In protected mode ] Description: In protected mode, two additional register instances are called index register and base pointer register, which helps expand the register. 49) Which of the following processors can perform exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions? 8087 8088 8086 8080 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ 8087 ] Description: 8087 is a coprocessor that can perform all the mathematical functions, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, etc. 8086, 8080, and 8088 are microprocessors that require the help of a coprocessor for floating-point arithmetic. 50) How are negative numbers stored in a coprocessor? Decimal Gray 1's complement 2's complement Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ 2's complement ] Description: In a coprocessor, negative numbers are stored in 2's complement with its leftmost sign bit of 1, whereas positive numbers are stored in the form of actual value with its leftmost sign bit of 0. Next TopicElectrical MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
