https://www.tutorialspoint.com/about/faq.htm
Frequently Asked Questions - Tutorialspoint
Frequently Asked Questions - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks About Tutorialspoint Company Team Careers Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Terms of Use Refund Policy More Links Write for us FAQ Helping Contact Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Frequently Asked Questions We come across various questions from our keen and enthusiastic readers. Here, we are answering few most important questions. Who started tutorialspoint.com? When? Who owns it? Tutorialspoint.com is a dedicated website to provide quality online education in the domains of Computer Science, Information Technology, Programming Languages, and other Engineering as well as Management subjects. This website was launched by an AMU alumni, Mr. Mohtashim, with a single tutorial on HTML in year 2006. At present, this website is developed and maintained by Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd., which established on 12th June, 2014. (Twelfth day of June Two Thousand Fourteen), under the Companies Act, 2013. The CIN of the company is “U80904AP2014PTC094598” Where is Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. located? We are located in Hyderabad, the beautiful city of Nizam. Our postal address is ? Postal Address: Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd., 4th Floor, INCOR 9 Building, Plot No - 283/A, Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA-500081 INDIA Email: contact@tutorialspoint.com Website: www.tutorialspoint.com Can we rely on your tutorials and trainings in terms of their quality? To answer this, we would like to say that it’s our business to provide quality tutorials without charging a fee. We are striving hard to maintain the quality of our tutorials as high as possible. Our tutorials and training materials are being used by a lot of freelancer trainers and training companies as well to teach their students. What is main source of income for the website? The tutorialspoint.com is primarily funded by the founder of Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. We also earn enough revenue from the advertisements published on the website and by selling ebooks. We are a financially strong company but we look forward to have trusted investors join hands with us and become a part of our mission. Where is tutorialspoint.com hosted? Initially, tutorialspoint.com was hosted with Godaddy.com. In 2010, the website was transported with the most reliable hosting provider named Hetzner, Germany, where we have setup more powerful servers to handle a large number of users. What is server configuration for tutorialspoint.com? Currently tutorialspoint.com is running on a dedicated server. Server Configuration - Dual Xeon E5-2630 2.3 GHz Six -Core 12 Threads (w H/T) server with Kingston SSD behind a Juniper SSG 5 firewall. Running on Apache/2.2.15 on CentOS release 6.5 and provided forum is supported by phpBB-3 CMS - WordPress, a powerful, reliable and simple CMS for managing short articles. What is current traffic on tutorialspoint.com?? At present, tutorialspoint.com is read by 13 million students and professionals around the world who access almost 35 million pages every month. The number of our users is multiplying every year. Who writes the contents for tutorialspoint.com? The content on the website are created by highly skilled professionals. A number of freelancers helped us in our effort to build a database of quality tutorials. They contributed their best tutorials into our Shared Tutorials Dictionary. We have established permanent setup in Hyderabad, INDIA, where we have a dedicated team of subject matters experts, technical writers, web developers and graphics designers who are taking the website to its next height of excellence. Can we reuse/publish the content available on tutorialspoint.com? Sorry, we do not allow to use our content for republishing online or to be printed for commercial purpose. But yes, you can use our content with in your Schools, Colleges, Universities, Institutes and Companies as long as it is only for internal purpose and you are keeping appropriate references to tutorialspoint.com website. What is the mission of tutorialspoint.com? Our mission is to deliver Simply Easy Learning with clear, crisp, and to-the-point content on a wide range of technical and non-technical subjects without any preconditions and impediments. How can I work for the website? If you wish to contribute, you are welcome. You can work with tutorialspoint.com as a freelancer, as well as a permanent employee at our office in Hyderabad-INDIA. To know about openings, visit the link ? Careers at Tutorials Point How can I help tutorialspoint.com? It will be a great help to us if you can point out any typing errors, spelling mistakes or incorrect grammar used in any of the tutorials. Your contribution is extremely valuable and it will certainly help bring further improvement in our service. You can send your findings/suggestions at ? Contact us Add a Link to Us To add a link, copy the following HTML code and paste it in the code of your website: <a href="https://www.tutorialspoint.com/">Tutorials Point</a> Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
