https://www.javatpoint.com/introvert-vs-extrovert
Difference between Introvert and Extrovert - javatpoint
Difference between Introvert and Extrovert - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Introvert and Extrovert We have often met people who talk a lot, and the ones who don't speak much. Such people are called introverts and extroverts. People who talk a lot and enjoy life to their fullest are often called extroverts, while those who tend to enjoy themselves are called as introverts. One can easily differentiate between introverts and extroverts. They have different characteristics and different features. Some people are said to be ambiverts, i.e., they have the tendency to be both introverts and extroverts. They mould themselves according to the situations. Ambiverts tend to have an advantage as they can mould themselves, unlike introverts or extroverts. Before discussing any further, let us see some key differences between introverts and extroverts. S.NO. INTROVERT EXTROVERT 1. Introverts are the people who like to be in their own company or the company of a few loved ones. They do not socialize much. On the other hand, extroverts are people who are outgoing and outspoken. Extroverts enjoy talking to lots of people, and they socialize very much. 2. They are self-contained and keep it to themselves. They talk to strangers, friends, and everybody they meet. 3. Introverts are over-thinkers, and they tend to think before speaking. Extroverts do not think before speaking. They are outspoken and don't think much. 4. Being isolated and in solitude helps them in improving their focus. By having social interactions, extroverts improve their focus and feel recharged. 5. Introverts spend most of their time with themselves. On the other hand, extroverts spend most of their time with their friends or family. 6. They are focused on the inside, i.e., taking care of themselves, meditating, etc. They are outwardly focussed, i.e., helping in external affairs, going out, and helping friends and family in various matters. 7. Introverts do not accept the change easily in their lives. On the other hand, extroverts accept any change that comes in their lives. 8. They openly communicate about anything and everything only with their loved ones. They are capable of communicating with everyone regarding anything. 9. Introverts are intensely focused on achieving their long-term and short-term goals. They cannot be easily distracted. Extroverts can be easily distracted. 10. For example: A person being in a social gathering yet being isolated is an introvert. For example: A person being in a social gathering, interacting with everyone is an extrovert. These are some of the stark differences between introverts and extroverts. We find many people having such distinctive characteristics. One can either be an introvert, extrovert, or an ambivert. Introverts and extroverts are equally admired by people. Some people like talking to other people, while some prefer to be silent and isolated as if they are in a meditative or concentrated state. Let us discuss about introverts further. Well, there are four kinds of introverts that we meet. They are: Social Introverts: These are the kinds of introverts who do not wish to socialize in a large group. They have a small group of their own, and they love spending time with their loved ones. It is sometimes possible that they wish to be completely isolated, i.e., they do not have any group at all. Social Introverts tend to stay at their homes, spending quality time by reading a book or watching a movie. They do not socialize much. Thinking Introverts: People who overthink much are called thinking introverts. People under this category are thoughtful and self-introspective. They tend to overthink about themselves as well as other people as well. However, if they dislike or disagree with someone, they do not speak it out. Instead, they tend to keep it within themselves. Anxious Introverts: The people who feel awkward and conscious around other people are called anxious introverts. Such people tend to seek solitude because they are not well at socializing and mingling with other people. They often think that they cannot talk properly with people and wish to be isolated. Restrained Introverts: Restrained Introverts are often reserved kinds of people. They do not talk much, and if they do, they think and speak about anything and everything. Such people tend to take time to get comfortable in social surroundings. So, these are the four kinds of introverts. Out of these four, we highly meet social and thinking introverts. Now, let us take a look at some different types of extroverts as well. Extrovert Sensors: People who are inspired by nature are called extrovert sensors. They are affected by the sensory experiences that they undergo. They are affected by the smell, the taste, the sound, and many other sensory experiences. Extrovert sensors are often interested in athletics and physical experiences like exercising, playing various games (football, basketball), etc. Extrovert Feelers: These kinds of extroverts primarily gain energy by socializing and interacting with people. They listen to other's experiences and also share their personal experiences with people. Extrovert feelers can easily empathize with other people's situations. They also tend to learn from other people's experiences. Extrovert Intuitives: These kinds of extroverts are the ones who are practical thinkers and think about their possible future prospects. They love to talk about their future plans and get engaged in friendly conversations or debates. Extrovert Thinkers: People who are logical and practical are often called extrovert thinkers. Such people are highly goal-oriented. They are capable of achieving their goals efficiently. Sometimes, they can be quite aggressive, but they do love talking to people. Extrovert thinkers are motivated by promotions and perks in their jobs. These are the four kinds of extroverts that we usually meet. Well, it is interesting to note that the characteristics of both introverts and extroverts are genetically present in the person. Introverts are better listeners, while extroverts are better speakers. Introverts tend to enjoy indoor activities like painting, reading, creative writing, etc. On the other hand, extroverts always enjoy outdoor activities like trekking, mountaineering, interacting with strangers, making new friends, meeting new people, etc. There are a lot of differences between introverts and extroverts, which are already mentioned above. Introverts are shy people who don't like talking much, while extroverts are talkative people who can talk about anything and everything. We often meet both kinds of people in our lives. Being an extrovert or an introvert is genetically imbibed by a person. Thus, both introverts and extroverts differ in meaning, characteristics, and habits. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
