https://www.javatpoint.com/holidays/american-holidays
American holidays - JavaTpoint
American holidays - JavaTpoint JavaTpoint Home Holidays Christian Holidays Hindu Holidays Jewish Holidays Muslim Holidays American Holidays Comment Forum Training Content Menu ? Christian Holidays Lent Good Friday Easter Christmas Hindu Holidays Makar Sankranti Holi Raksha Bandhan Ganesha Chaturthi Dussehra Diwali Jewish Holidays Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur Purim American Holidays Memorial Day Halloween Labor Day Black Friday Veterans Day Father's Day Mother's Day Mardi Gras Presidents' Day Flag Day American Holidays A list of popular American holidays or US holidays are given below. 1) Memorial Day Memorial Day is celebrated in the memory of the warriors who died while serving the country's armed forces. It is a very important day for the people of united State of America. It is celebrated every year on the last Monday of the May month. It is originally introduced as Decoration Day after the American civil war in 1868. Many Americans visit cemeteries and memorials on the Memorial Day. It is traditionally seen as the start of the summer season. More details. 2) Labor Day Labor Day is a holiday in united state of America. It is celebrated on the first Monday in September, in the memory of American Labor Movement. It is dedicated to the social and economic achievements of the workers. It is a national tribute to the workers who have made to the strength, prosperity and well being of the country. The first Labor Day was celebrated on Tuesday, 5 September 1882, in New York City. More details. 3) Black Friday Black Friday is a holiday in United States of America. It is a day after Thanksgiving Day. It is celebrated as a shopping day in USA. It is the biggest shopping day in the biggest economy in the world. Most of the people take leaves from their job and go for shopping, visiting their relatives, managing to go for a trip or make shopping preparation before Christmas season. It is not a federal holiday, but is a public holiday in some states. Most of the shops are closed due to Thanksgiving weekend.More details. 4) Veterans Day Veterans Day is an official holiday in United States of America. It is celebrated in the honor of veterans who served in the U.S. Armed Forces. It is totally different from Memorial Day. The Memorial Day is celebrated in the memory of martyrs who were died while serving on the other hand Veteran Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans. More details. 5) Father's Day Fatherâ??s day is celebrated worldwide to recognize the contribution of fathers for their children. On this day people pay tribute to their fathers and honor them. It is celebrated on third Sunday in June every year. It was created to complement motherâ??s day. The fatherâ??s day celebration was firstly started in early of 20th century. It is not a federal holiday. More details. 6) Mother's day Mother's day is celebrated worldwide to show respect and honor to one's own mother. It is a celebration which shows the importance of mothers and motherhood in the society. Although it is not a federal holiday but the shops and businesses are generally closed for celebrating mother's day. It is an annual event and celebrated on different dates according to country to country. Generally, it is celebrated on second Sunday in May. More details. 7) Mardi Gras Mardi Gras is a Christian holiday. It is a popular cultural phenomenon. It is like a carnival and celebrated in many countries in all over the world. Mardi Gras is known as Fat Tuesday in French. It is known as a festival of drunken revelers engaging in excesses of every kind. In this celebration, a king cake (typically made with brioche dough) is made and eaten. This is one of the festivals which can be cancelled occasionally. More details. 8) Presidents' Day President's day is the federal holiday in United States. It is celebrated in the memory of first president of USA, George Washington. It is celebrated officially to honor the life and work of George Washington. George Washington's birthday is known as President Day because most of the states adopted George Washington's birthday as President's Day. More details. 9) Flag Day Flag Day is celebrated in United States, every year on 14 June. It is celebrated in the memory of the adoption of national flag of United States. Army birthday is also celebrated on this day by United State Army. The Flag Day falls within national flag week. The flag of United States shows freedom. Although Flag Day has a national importance but it is not a public holiday in many part of the United State. It is a legal holiday in some parts of the United States. More details. Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
