https://www.javatpoint.com/er-model-vs-relational-model
Difference between ER Model and Relational Model - javatpoint
Difference between ER Model and Relational Model - javatpoint ? Home DBMS SQL PL/SQL SQLite MongoDB Cassandra MySQL Oracle CouchDB Neo4j DB2 C Java Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training DBMS Tutorial DBMS Tutorial What is Database Types of Databases What is RDBMS DBMS vs RDBMS DBMS vs File System DBMS Architecture Three schema Architecture Data Models Data model schema Data Independence DBMS Language ACID Properties in DBMS Data modeling ER model concept Notation for ER diagram ER Design Issues Mapping constraints DBMS Keys DBMS Generalization DBMS Specialization DBMS Aggregation Convert ER into table Relationship of Higher Degree Relational data Model Relational Model concept Relational Algebra Join Operation Integrity Constraints Relational Calculus Normalization Functional Dependency Inference Rule DBMS Normalization DBMS 1NF DBMS 2NF DBMS 3NF DBMS BCNF DBMS 4NF DBMS 5NF Relational Decomposition Multivalued Dependency Join Dependency Inclusion Dependence Canonical Cover Transaction Processing Transaction Transaction Property States of Transaction DBMS Schedule Testing of Serializability Conflict schedule View Serializability Recoverability of Schedule Failure Classification Log-Based Recovery DBMS Checkpoint Deadlock in DBMS Concurrency Control Concurrency Control Lock based Protocol Time stamping Protocol Validation based Protocol Thomas Write Rule Multiple Granularity Recovery Concurrent Transaction File organization File organization Sequential File Organization Heap File Organization Hash File Organization B+ File Organization DBMS ISAM Cluster File Organization Indexing and B+ Tree Indexing in DBMS B+ Tree Hashing Hashing Static Hashing Dynamic Hashing RAID RAID Misc Decomposition Algorithms Storage System in DBMS Data Dictionary Storage File Organization Storage Selection of RAID Levels Bitmap Indexing Buffer Replacement Strategies Database Buffer Estimating Query Cost Query Processing in DBMS Evaluation of Expressions External Sort-Merge Algorithm Hash Join Algorithm Materialization in Query Processing Merge Join Algorithm Nested-Loop Join Algorithm Selection Operation in Query Processing Double-Pipelined Join Algorithm Implementation of Pipelining Pipelining in Query Processing Advanced Query Optimization Transforming Relational Expressions Candidate Key Closure of an Attribute QUESTIONS ON BOYCE CODD NORMAL FORM QUESTIONS ON NORMALIZATION QUESTIONS ON THIRD NORMAL FORM EQUIVALENCE OF FUNCTIONAL DEPENDENCY Referential Integrity constraint Questions on Lossy and Lossless Decomposition LOSSY OR LOSSLESS DECOMPOSITION (second method) QUESTIONS TO IDENTIFY NORMAL FORM Types of Relationship in Database Table Candidate Key in DBMS Primary Key in DBMS Super Key in DBMS Alternate Key in DBMS Composite Key in DBMS Foreign Key in DBMS Surrogate Key in DBMS Unique Key in DBMS Purpose of Normalization COMMIT vs ROLLBACK in SQL DDL vs DML Denormalization in Databases ER Model vs Relational Model SQL Introduction SQL Introduction Characteristics of SQL Advantage of SQL SQl Datatype SQL Command SQL Operator SQL Table SQL SELECT Statement SQL INSERT Statement SQL Update Statement SQL DELETE Statement SQL View SQL Index SQL Sub Queries SQL Clauses SQL Aggregate Function SQL JOIN SQL Set Operation DBMS MCQ DBMS MCQ Interview Questions DBMS Interview SQL Interview next ? ? prev Difference between ER Model and Relational Model The E-R Model and Relational Model are two aspects of the Data Model in DBMS that are used to construct databases at the physical, logical, and view levels. This article explains the complete overview of the E-R Model and Relational Model. The difference between these models is the most common part of an interview question. The key distinction is that the E-R Model is entity-specific, while the Relational Model is table-specific. Before making the comparison, we will first know these Data Models. What is ER Model? An ER model stands for the Entity-Relationship model that Peter Chen developed in 1976. This model consists of a collection of entities (Real word objects) and their relationships. It describes the database's conceptual view. We must ensure that no two entities are identical in this context. ER Model describes the system's logical view from a data perspective formed by the entity set, relationship set, and attributes. In this model, all entities come under the entity set, all relations between the entities come under the relationship set, and attributes describe the properties of entities. Let us understand ER model with an example. Suppose we have two real-world entities named Student and Branch that will further form an Entity set. Now we can easily form a relation between them as the Student belongs to a Branch. It shows how we can get a relationship set from ER Model. Noted that the ER Model content must conform to constraints like mapping cardinality. Finally, the attributes of these entities would be: For Student: stud_id, stud_name, address, mobile, mail-id. For Branch: branch_id, branch_name, num_of_stud. What is the Relational Model? In 1970, E.F. Codd developed the relational model. He proposed this model as well as a non-procedural approach for modeling data in the form of relations or tables. In the Relational Model, tables are usually interpreted as relations. If we model the database using ER diagrams, we must convert them into the relational model, which can be implemented by one of the RDBMS languages such as SQL and MySQL. In the relational model, each table contains rows and columns where we can have any number of rows, but the number of columns must be definite. The table rows are called tuples that include the complete information about specific entities. Records are a set of tuples, so the Relational model is also known as the Record-based Model. Table columns are called attributes because they characterize a table's properties. To store values, each attribute must have a type. Key Differences between ER Model and Relational Model The following points explain the main differences between ER Model and Relational Model: The main distinction between the ER model and the Relational Model is that the ER model describes the relationship between entities and their attributes. On the other hand, the Relational Model referred to the implementation of our model. The Relational Model is the implementation or representational model, while the ER Model is the high-level or conceptual model. The data in components such as entity sets, relationship sets, and attributes are represented by an ER model. The Relational model, on the other hand, defines data in components such as tuples, attributes, and attribute domains. As compared to a Relational Model, an ER model makes it easier to understand the relationships between entities. Mapping Cardinality is always a constraint in the ER model, while the cardinality constraint cannot be defined in the Relational Model. ER Model vs. Relational Model Comparison Chart The following comparison chart explains their main differences in a quick manner: Comparison Basis ER Model Relational Model Basic It's used to describe a set of objects known as entities, as well as the relationships between them. It's used to represent a collection of tables as well as the relationships between them. Type It is a high-level or conceptual model. It is the implementation or representational model. Components It represents components as Entity, Entity Type, and Entity Set. It represents components as domain, attributes, and tuples. Used By This model is helpful for those people who don't have any knowledge about how data is implemented. This model is mostly famous among programmers. Relationship It is easy to understand the relationship between entities. Compared to ER model, it is easier to derive the relation between tables in the Relational model. Mapping This model explains how to map Cardinalities. The uniqueness of data values in a row is referred to as cardinality. This model does not describe mapping cardinalities. Conclusion In this article, we have made a comparison between ER Model and Relational Model. We may conclude that if we convert an E-R model to a Relational model, we must ensure that each strong entity has its own table. Next TopicDBMS SQL Introduction ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
