https://www.javatpoint.com/denormalization-in-databases
Denormalization in Databases - javatpoint
Denormalization in Databases - javatpoint ? Home DBMS SQL PL/SQL SQLite MongoDB Cassandra MySQL Oracle CouchDB Neo4j DB2 C Java Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training DBMS Tutorial DBMS Tutorial What is Database Types of Databases What is RDBMS DBMS vs RDBMS DBMS vs File System DBMS Architecture Three schema Architecture Data Models Data model schema Data Independence DBMS Language ACID Properties in DBMS Data modeling ER model concept Notation for ER diagram ER Design Issues Mapping constraints DBMS Keys DBMS Generalization DBMS Specialization DBMS Aggregation Convert ER into table Relationship of Higher Degree Relational data Model Relational Model concept Relational Algebra Join Operation Integrity Constraints Relational Calculus Normalization Functional Dependency Inference Rule DBMS Normalization DBMS 1NF DBMS 2NF DBMS 3NF DBMS BCNF DBMS 4NF DBMS 5NF Relational Decomposition Multivalued Dependency Join Dependency Inclusion Dependence Canonical Cover Transaction Processing Transaction Transaction Property States of Transaction DBMS Schedule Testing of Serializability Conflict schedule View Serializability Recoverability of Schedule Failure Classification Log-Based Recovery DBMS Checkpoint Deadlock in DBMS Concurrency Control Concurrency Control Lock based Protocol Time stamping Protocol Validation based Protocol Thomas Write Rule Multiple Granularity Recovery Concurrent Transaction File organization File organization Sequential File Organization Heap File Organization Hash File Organization B+ File Organization DBMS ISAM Cluster File Organization Indexing and B+ Tree Indexing in DBMS B+ Tree Hashing Hashing Static Hashing Dynamic Hashing RAID RAID Misc Decomposition Algorithms Storage System in DBMS Data Dictionary Storage File Organization Storage Selection of RAID Levels Bitmap Indexing Buffer Replacement Strategies Database Buffer Estimating Query Cost Query Processing in DBMS Evaluation of Expressions External Sort-Merge Algorithm Hash Join Algorithm Materialization in Query Processing Merge Join Algorithm Nested-Loop Join Algorithm Selection Operation in Query Processing Double-Pipelined Join Algorithm Implementation of Pipelining Pipelining in Query Processing Advanced Query Optimization Transforming Relational Expressions Candidate Key Closure of an Attribute QUESTIONS ON BOYCE CODD NORMAL FORM QUESTIONS ON NORMALIZATION QUESTIONS ON THIRD NORMAL FORM EQUIVALENCE OF FUNCTIONAL DEPENDENCY Referential Integrity constraint Questions on Lossy and Lossless Decomposition LOSSY OR LOSSLESS DECOMPOSITION (second method) QUESTIONS TO IDENTIFY NORMAL FORM Types of Relationship in Database Table Candidate Key in DBMS Primary Key in DBMS Super Key in DBMS Alternate Key in DBMS Composite Key in DBMS Foreign Key in DBMS Surrogate Key in DBMS Unique Key in DBMS Purpose of Normalization COMMIT vs ROLLBACK in SQL DDL vs DML Denormalization in Databases ER Model vs Relational Model SQL Introduction SQL Introduction Characteristics of SQL Advantage of SQL SQl Datatype SQL Command SQL Operator SQL Table SQL SELECT Statement SQL INSERT Statement SQL Update Statement SQL DELETE Statement SQL View SQL Index SQL Sub Queries SQL Clauses SQL Aggregate Function SQL JOIN SQL Set Operation DBMS MCQ DBMS MCQ Interview Questions DBMS Interview SQL Interview next ? ? prev Denormalization in Databases When we normalize tables, we break them into multiple smaller tables. So when we want to retrieve data from multiple tables, we need to perform some kind of join operation on them. In that case, we use the denormalization technique that eliminates the drawback of normalization. Denormalization is a technique used by database administrators to optimize the efficiency of their database infrastructure. This method allows us to add redundant data into a normalized database to alleviate issues with database queries that merge data from several tables into a single table. The denormalization concept is based on the definition of normalization that is defined as arranging a database into tables correctly for a particular purpose. NOTE: Denormalization does not indicate not doing normalization. It is an optimization strategy that is used after normalization has been achieved. For Example, We have two table students and branch after performing normalization. The student table has the attributes roll_no, stud-name, age, and branch_id. Additionally, the branch table is related to the student table with branch_id as the student table's foreign key. A JOIN operation between these two tables is needed when we need to retrieve all student names as well as the branch name. Suppose we want to change the student name only, then it is great if the table is small. The issue here is that if the tables are big, joins on tables can take an excessively long time. In this case, we'll update the database with denormalization, redundancy, and extra effort to maximize the efficiency benefits of fewer joins. Therefore, we can add the branch name's data from the Branch table to the student table and optimizing the database. Pros of Denormalization The following are the advantages of denormalization: 1. Enhance Query Performance Fetching queries in a normalized database generally requires joining a large number of tables, but we already know that the more joins, the slower the query. To overcome this, we can add redundancy to a database by copying values between parent and child tables, minimizing the number of joins needed for a query. 2. Make database more convenient to manage A normalized database is not required calculated values for applications. Calculating these values on-the-fly will take a longer time, slowing down the execution of the query. Thus, in denormalization, fetching queries can be simpler because we need to look at fewer tables. 3. Facilitate and accelerate reporting Suppose you need certain statistics very frequently. It requires a long time to create them from live data and slows down the entire system. Suppose you want to monitor client revenues over a certain year for any or all clients. Generating such reports from live data will require "searching" throughout the entire database, significantly slowing it down. Cons of Denormalization The following are the disadvantages of denormalization: It takes large storage due to data redundancy. It makes it expensive to updates and inserts data in a table. It makes update and inserts code harder to write. Since data can be modified in several ways, it makes data inconsistent. Hence, we'll need to update every piece of duplicate data. It's also used to measure values and produce reports. We can do this by using triggers, transactions, and/or procedures for all operations that must be performed together. How is denormalization different from normalization? The denormalization is different from normalization in the following manner: Denormalization is a technique used to merge data from multiple tables into a single table that can be queried quickly. Normalization, on the other hand, is used to delete redundant data from a database and replace it with non-redundant and reliable data. Denormalization is used when joins are costly, and queries are run regularly on the tables. Normalization, on the other hand, is typically used when a large number of insert/update/delete operations are performed, and joins between those tables are not expensive. Next TopicER Model vs Relational Model ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
