https://www.javatpoint.com/install-sql-server
Install Sql Server - javatpoint
Install Sql Server  - javatpoint ? Home C# SQL Server SQL PL/SQL SQLite MongoDB Cassandra MySQL Oracle CouchDB Neo4j Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training SQL Server Tutorials SQL Server Tutorials What is SQL Server Install Visual Studio Install SQL Server SS Management Studio SS Datatypes DB Operations SS Login Database SS Create Database SS Select Database SQL Server Database SS Create Table SS Delete Table SS Insert Data SS Update Data SS Delete Data SS Delete TOP Aggregate Function SS MIN Function SS MAX Function SS SUM Function SS AVG Function SS COUNT Function SQL Server Operators SS Comparison Operator SS UNION Operator SS INTERSECT Operator IN Operator NOT Operator BETWEEN Operator IS NULL Operator IS NOT NULL Operator LIKE Operator EXIST Operator SQL Server Clauses DISTINCT Clause GROUP BY Clause SQL Server Keys SS Primary Keys Enable Primary Key DIsable Primary Key Drop Primary Key SS Foreign Keys Enable Foreign Key Disable Foreign Key Drop Foreign Key SQL Server Advance Create View Backup Database Restore Database Miscellaneous SQL Server Substring CTE in SQL Server Services SSIS Tutorial SSRS Tutorial Interview Questions SQL Server Interview next ? ? prev How to Download and Install MS SQL Server This article gives a complete overview of how we can install and configure SQL Server using the Installation Wizard. It explains the step-by-step procedure to use the SQL Server Setup Installation Wizard to install a new instance of SQL Server. With this setup, we don't have to install each SQL Server component individually because the Installation Wizard provides a single feature tree for all of them. SQL Server System Requirements The following are the requirements to install the SQL Server when used with the latest available service pack: It will support the below software and Operating Systems: Windows 10 (64-bit) version 1607 (10.0.14393) or later Windows 8.1 (64-bit) Windows Server 2019 (64-bit) Windows Server 2016 (64-bit) Windows Server 2012 R2 (64-bit) Windows Server 2012 (64-bit) Windows Server 2008 R2 (64-bit) .NET Framework Before installing it on our system, we must have the following hardware: 4 GHz or faster x64 processor. For better use, it is recommended to have 2.0 GHz or faster. It requires a minimum of 512 MB RAM for express, and all other editions require 1 GB RAM. For better use, it is recommended 1 GB for express edition, and all other editions require 4 GB and should be increased when the database size increases. We must have a minimum of 6 GB space on the hard disk. How to Download SQL Server Setup We can use the following steps to download MS SQL Server in the Windows operating system: Step 1: Go to the official page through this URL: https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/sql-server/sql-server-downloads. Microsoft offers two free editions that work with MS SQL Server: Developer: It has all of the MS SQL Server functionality, but we are unable to use it in a non-production environment as a development and test database. It's an ideal edition for the learning perspective. Express: It is also a free edition, but it comes with a limited set of features that is suitable for desktop, web, and small server application development and production. Here, we are going to select the Express edition for installation on our system. Step 2: Click on the "Download now" button. Immediately the SQL Server setup starts downloading on our system. Step 3: Once the file has been downloaded, we will get the setup named "SQL2019-SSEI-Expr.exe." How to Install SQL Server The following steps help us to install MS SQL Server in the Windows operating system: Step 1: Double click on "SQL2019-SSEI-Expr.exe" setup file. We will get the below screen with three options: Basic, Custom, and Download Media files. Here, we will select the 'Basic' option to install the basic version that includes all of the default configurations needed to learn Microsoft SQL Server. Step 2: The next wizard will ask you to accept the 'Microsoft Server License Terms', click on the 'Accept' button. Next, we will specify the SQL Server installation location; if necessary, we can change it to the desired place and click the Install button. In the next wizard, we need to wait for the download process to complete installation packages. Once the installation is completed successfully, we will get the SQL Server Installation Center window similar to the below screen: If you want to create a new SQL Server installation, select the New SQL Server standalone installation or add features to an existing installation option. Step 3: On the next page, read the terms of the license agreement and then click on the Next button. Step 4: In the next wizard, i.e., on the Global Rules page, if no rule error is found, the setup will automatically navigate to the Product Updates page. Step 5: The next page is a Microsoft Update page. When we click the check box, it will check the latest updates for all Microsoft products for changing the computer settings. After finishing the updates, click on Next. Step 6: The next wizard is the Product Updates page that shows the latest SQL Server software updates. If it does not find any product updates, the setup skips over this page and automatically navigates to the Install Setup Files page. Step 7: The next wizard is the Install Setup Files page that displays the progress of the download, extract, and installation of the setup files. If it finds an update and we want to include these updates, it will be installed as well. If no update is found, the setup will automatically navigate to the next page. Step 8: The next wizard is the Install Rules page on which the setup tests for possible issues that can arise while running the setup. If it finds issues, select an item in the Status column for more detail. If no issues are found, click on Next. Step 9: If we install this setup the first time on our system, it will skip the Installation Type page and navigate the Feature Selection page. If the setup is found on the system, we can choose whether to perform a new installation or add new features to it on the Installation Type page. On the Feature Selection page, we need to choose the components for our installation. Suppose we want to install a new instance of SQL Server Database Engine, we'll choose Database Engine Services. Click Next to proceed. Step 10: In the next wizard, we will specify the name and instance ID to create the new instance of SQL Server. Leave the default and click on Next to proceed. Step 11: The next wizard is the Server Configuration page, where we will specify the service account and collation configuration. Here, we will set the startup type "Automatic" and click on Next to proceed. Step 12: The next wizard is the Database Engine Configuration, where we will specify the authentication security mode, administrators, and data directories. Here we will select the following: Authentication Mode Choose Mixed Mode Enter a STRONG password for the system administrator account Specify SQL Server Administrators Add the local administrator account Click on Next to proceed. The installation process begins. Step 13: Once the installation is complete, click on the Close button to finish the setup. Step 14: If you're instructed to restart your computer, do so now to complete the SQL Server setup. Next TopicSQL Server Management Studio ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
