https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-plants
Types of Plants - Javatpoint
Types of Plants - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Plants There is a wide variety of plants worldwide. Despite the different types, plants have similar functions. Generally, we usually recognize plants that provide flowers and food, and others grow only for taking part in photosynthesis. It doesn't matter if it is just a flowering plant or a non-flowering plant; all kinds of plants are necessary for living. They are an essential part of all aquatic systems and can grow in all types of atmospheric conditions. In this article, we are discussing the different types of plants. The article also outlines the definition and examples of each type. Before we discuss various plant types, let us discuss the term 'Plant'. What is a plant? Plants are defined as multicellular organisms, meaning they are living things. However, they cannot move like humans or other living species. They can grow almost anywhere on the Earth, from snowy mountain slopes to dry and hot deserts. Plants create their foods by taking energy from sunlight, the primary source of energy on Earth. They further provide energy to the ecosystem, making them essential for any ecosystem. Plants use a process called photosynthesis and consume energy from the sunlight to grow and reproduce. They also receive nutrients from the soil. All other organisms in the food chain receive energy from plants by directly consuming them or consuming other organisms that depend on plants. Not all animals can eat all kinds of plants. Plants also produce fruits, vegetables, and grains that help form basic human foods. Besides, they also produce a substantial proportion of the world's molecular oxygen. Therefore, plants are the basis of most of Earth's ecosystems. Types of Plants Plants can be classified based on various factors, such as their roots, heights, fruits, flowers, leaves, branches, genera, species, families, etc. However, they are mainly divided based on the following two major factors: Classification of Plants based on Growth Habits Classification of Plants based on Seeds The above two classifications allow us to identify plant types easily. Let us now discuss each type in detail: Classification of Plants based on Growth Habits The simplest classification of plants is possible based on their growth habits, meaning how the plant's growth and development happen. This usually involves plant's shapes, heights, and the specific process of growth they undergo. Multiple factors take part in a plant's growth habit, and therefore, they have different heights, thicknesses, structures, etc. Based on growth habits, plants are mainly divided into the following types: Herbs Herbs are types of plants that are small in size. They have soft, green, delicate stems but no wood tissue. They may or may not have branches. The herb is known to complete its life cycle in one or two seasons. These plants generally do not have strong roots, and therefore, they can be easily uprooted. Besides, herbs have substantial nutritional benefits, making them part of a healthy balanced diet. Bananas, tomatoes, paddy, and wheat are some examples of herbs that contain significant amounts of vitamins and minerals. Shrubs Shrubs are relatively large compared to herbs. They are medium-sized plants and have many branches. The height of the shrubs can vary from 6m to 10m. Other features include woody stems that are bushy and hardy. However, the stems are not so tough; they are flexible. The life span of the shrubs depends solely on the species concerned. Most shrubs benefit from occasional trim because trimming helps them develop new and fresh branches. However, it is recommended to always wait for trimming until the shrub has finished flowering for the season. Rose, basil, jasmine, and henna are some of the most commonly found shrubs. Trees Trees are plant types that are tall and can cover a fairly large area. Once they are fully grown, they are much larger than herbs and shrubs. Even the tree is the largest type of plant. The trees include hard, woody, thick stems, known as trunks. The trunk usually produces many branches that help the leaves, fruits, and flowers to grow. But this is not always the case. Some trees do not include branches; they usually have leaves, flowers, and fruits on their main stem or trunk. The coconut tree is one such plant. The trees' life span is comparatively long, which means that they can grow for many years. Mango, neem, banyan, oak, teak, and cashew are examples of commonly found trees. Creepers As the name suggests, creepers are plants that are known for their creep characteristics. This means that they usually grow by crawling on the surface of the ground. They include thin, long, and very delicate stems. Stems in creepers do not even help them stand. Therefore, these plants continue to grow on the ground. Most creepers plant fruit on the surface. Pumpkin, watermelon, strawberry, and sweet potato are some examples of creepers. Climbers Climbers are almost similar to creepers. However, they have one major advantage. Although climbers have thin, weak stems as compared to creepers, they have additional support. The additional support mainly helps them grow vertically with some surrounding elements such as walls, trees, etc. This allows them to carry their particular weight, including fruits. Climbers usually have a unique part called tendrils that help them climb. Some popular climbers are money plants, green peas, sweet gourd, grapes, runner beans, pea plant, etc. Classification of Plants based on Seeds Based on seeds, plants are mainly classified into two groups such as: Seed-bearing Plants (Plants with seeds) Plants without seeds Plants with Seeds This category of plants includes all types of flowering plants, ginkgo, conifers (cedars, firs, junipers, pines, spruce, etc.), and cycads (palm-like plants consisting of cones). All these plants have seeds either encased inside the cones or in fruits. The flowering plants typically produce seeds inside the fruits. This includes both soft fruits (such as apples, berries, oranges, etc.) and hard fruits (all kinds of nuts). All such species of plants that contain seeds are known as vascular plants. Besides, all seed-bearing plants that have flowers are termed angiosperms, while gymnosperms are cone-producing trees. The seed-bearing plants are one of the largest groups of land-plants in the world. There are about 320,000 plant species on Earth, and about 270-290 of them contain seeds. Let's take a look at the four major groups of plants that reproduce with seeds: Flowering Plants Flowering plants are some of the most beautiful types of plants. Flowering plants can include a small rose plant to the tall oak tree. These are kinds of plants characterized as angiosperms because they produce seeds in flowers that further take part in the reproductive system. This means that the seeds in flowering plants act as plants' reproductive organs. Since flowering plants have a complex system that usually helps to transport fluids to all parts of the plants, they are also called vascular plants. Furthermore, these plants can also be sub-divided as annuals or perennials based on their surviving capability in the winter season. Some flowers bloom only in spring, while others start flowering in spring and continue to bloom until fall. The following are some most common types of flowering plants: 1. Flowering Annual Plants: The annual plants are the type of plants that usually die in the winter season and release their dormant seed. Some most popular annual plants that produce flowers are petunias, poppies, snapdragons, pansies, winter violas, marigolds, etc. 2. Flowering Perennial Plants: Perennial plants are known to produce flowers every year for a specific period. There is no need to replant these types of plants very often. The actual life span of perennials mainly varies from plant to plant. Some flowering plants are also termed tender perennials because they typically grow as annuals in the cold atmosphere. Some most popular perennial plants that produce flowers years after years are roses, dahlias, succulents, hibiscus, lilac shrubs, tulips, daffodils, etc. 3. Exotic-looking Orchids: These plants are some of those beautiful plants that can grow indoors. They are available in several varieties, and each one has different colors. The most common and easy to care example of exotic-looking orchid include Phalaenopsis orchids. They have large colorful petals with random markings. 4. Ivy and flowering vines: Ivy is a land plant and can grow well indoors and outdoors. Ivy consists of seeds and is characterized as an angiosperm. In particular, ivy (also called Hedera) is a fast-growing plant with trailing features. This means it can climb walls and trellises. This green leafy plant is mostly used in hanging baskets. As the plant is a member of flowering plants, it typically produces blossoms each year. There can be different species of ivy. 5. Ornamental Grasses: There is a wide range of ornamental grasses with different heights and colors. These are mainly used for preservation around the garden with beautification. The main advantage of these plants is that they are versatile and can easily grow with little maintenance. They also have a seed-bearing characteristic that helps them to reproduce. The height of ornamental grasses can vary from a few centimeters to a few meters. Ginkgo Ginkgo is a type of tree plant, and it produces seeds. It is the only plant classified in the division Ginkgophyta. All other related species of ginkgo have gone extinct long ago. Therefore, ginkgo is considered a unique type of plant and is completely different from all other plant species. It has unique leaves with a fan-shaped structure and a shape between 2 to 4 inches (5 - 10 cm). Furthermore, it produces fruits that do not contain seeds but are similar to fruits, called false fruits. The Ginkgo Biloba tree is native to China and has many uses in traditional medicine. Conifers Conifers are mostly woody, shrub-life plants and trees that are categorized in the division Pinophyta. They usually grow in most climates worldwide; however, they are most commonly found in Northern Hemisphere. Conifers are plants that can be as long as large majestic trees or as small as they can grow inside the home in ornamental gardens. Most large conifers consist of drooping leaves covered within soft pine needles, while small conifers species are shrub-like evergreen plants. Generally, conifers are distinguished by their seed-producing cones. Additionally, they are also identified with their unique bluish-gray, green, or silvery foliage. They are best known for their surviving capability in very cold regions. Some species of conifers can survive in about -13 °F (-25 °C) and lower temperatures. Some most popular conifers are pines, cedars, junipers, spruce, etc. Cycads Cycads are defined as exotic plants and mainly grow in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. These plants have commonly woody trunks which produce large evergreen leaves. Since leaves directly form from trunks, cycads do not have branches. These are plants with seeds, and seeds are produced inside the cone-line structures. They tend to reproduce using beetles that help pollinate the seeds. Cycads are known to grow in warm climates. There are significant amounts of varieties of cycads, and they are found in different sizes. The smallest type of cycads can have a tiny trunk, usually in few centimeters. This type of trunks in cycads are so small that the leaves seem to have grown directly from the ground. This eventually makes it difficult to distinguish these plant species from ferns. Besides, cycads can grow long and reach up to about 32-50 feet. Plants without Seeds This category of plants includes all kinds of algae, liverworts, mosses, and ferns. They do not have seeds. Instead, they produce spores, which typically are distributed by the wind. The spores further help grow or reproduce new tiny plants, called gametophytes. Let's take a look at the four major groups of plants that reproduce without seeds: Algae Algae are plants that most commonly grow in water bodies. There is a diverse range of seedless plants that are parts of algae. However, they all are typically categorized into brown algae, green algae, and red algae. Since algae consist of diverse species of plants, the categorized groups do not relate with one another. Algae can be small microscopic organisms that could be consumed as food by various marine animals. Besides, they can be seaweed, usually developed in water bodies around coastlines. There are about 72,500 algae found worldwide. Although algae are characterized as plants, there is some confusion regarding it. Some species of algae are believed to have the ability to eat other organisms, similar to the animals. However, all algae use photosynthesis to make food. That is why they are mostly grouped as plant types. Brown Algae: Brown algae are the most common type of seedless plant. Some species of brown algae are believed to be the largest plants worldwide. Typically, they can be as tall as 165 feet (50 m) in height. However, most brown algae plants grow in the sea and are good for eating. An example of this type of edible brown algae is sea kelp which contains a significant amount of iodine. Green Algae: Green algae are those seedless plants that most commonly grow in freshwater. However, they are also found in saltwater. Generally, some species of green algae are tiny microscopic organisms. When they grow in the majority, they almost turn the ponds or seawater's surface into green. Like brown algae, there are many species of green algae which grow as seaweed. Red Algae: Red algae, also called Rhodophyta, contain most of the species of algae amongst the three groups (phyla). They typically grow in marine environmental conditions. Red algae do not produce seeds and a good source of food for many other organisms. They are kind of algae that can be used for nori. Liverworts Liverworts are known as nonvascular plants that have no flowers and do not contain seeds. They are small leafy plants and generally have a size between 2 mm to 20 mm wide. These are plants known to flourish in damp areas. Liverworts include many species of plants, and small species sometimes become very hard to differentiate from mosses. One effective way to differentiate liverworts is that they typically have tiny hair-like structures called rhizoids. This mainly helps them absorb a significant amount of water. Besides, it is believed that the liverworts developed after algae. Since these plants have lower structure, and so they are considered more advanced than algae plants. Liverworts are categorized in the division Marchantiophyta. Mosses Like liverworts, mosses (also called moss in short) are plants that also grow mainly in damp places. They are unique types of plants that do not necessarily require soil. This means they can also grow without the presence of soil. Mosses often grow on rocks, trees, and even on concrete. There are around 12,000 species of moss, and all such species are categorized in the division Bryophyta. Ferns Ferns are another group of plants that do not contain seeds. These are also flowerless and are categorized in the division Polypodiopsida. Unlike algae and mosses, ferns are vascular plants and distribute spores. This eventually helps them reproduce. There are about 10,500 species of ferns. Few of them are believed to be the oldest types of plants on Earth. Ferns are typically distinguished by their green leafy foliage, which also contains pinnae and fronds. Most of the ferns generally grow in damp shady places. Besides, they can grow up to 82 feet (25 m) tall under suitable conditions. Next TopicBridge Rectifier ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
