https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-motion
Types of Motion - Javatpoint
Types of Motion - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Motion Everything in this world is naturally in a continuous state of movement. Specifically, the Earth seems to be in a stable state; however, it is also somewhat in a motion state. That makes it clear that everything present on Earth is also in motion. Even though we don't experience particular objects' movement, they are in motion concerning something or someone. Typically, we notice that different objects move in different ways. Therefore, there are different types of motion primarily based on the nature of the movement. In this article, we are discussing all the common types of motion and their definitions. Before we discuss various motion types, let us first briefly understand the definition of motion, including the related terms used to define motion. What is a Motion? Motion is defined as the change in an object's position with respect to time. Technically, each object in this universe is in motion. Even the universe itself is in continual motion. The motion can be slow or fast, but there will a motion always. However, when an object is at rest (not moving), we call it stationary. When we say that the object is in motion, it is always said concerning any other object. For instance, when we see a person walking on the road, we say that a person is in motion. In this case, the person is generally moving with respect to stationary objects such as trees, poles, etc. Besides, when we see a person sleeping on the bed, we say a person is in a rest state (not in motion). It is because the person is stationary with respect to the bed or some other objects around him. But as we know that the Earth is in motion, and so technically, everything is in motion. The examples explained here also clarify that the same object can be at rest and in motion in different states or times. Motion is mainly defined using the following terms: Distance: The total measured length of the path traveled by the object Displacement: The shortest difference between the initial position and final position of the moving object Speed: A rate at which the position of the object changes with respect to the origin and the time Time: Total duration of period the object is traveling (moving) All these quantities help in describing the change in the position of objects between particular points. Some General Examples of Motion The following are some general life examples of motion, which will help us to understand motion clearly: Humans' regular activities, such as running, walking, jumping, and many others, include motion with them. All these activities change the state of the human body. When we breathe, there is a flow of air that goes in and out of our lungs. This flow of air is also an example of the motion of air particles. The movement of vehicles is also an example of motion. Birds flying in the sky are also in motion. There are various other everyday-life examples of motion. Let us now understand the different types of motion, which will help us distinguish the motion types in different categories. Types of Motion Different particles usually have different movement styles. Sometimes, the same particle may follow different styles. For instance, an object may move in a straight path, circular path, or follow any other random path. According to the different paths or ways of movements, the motion is classified into the different type, such as: Linear Motion Rotary Motion Oscillatory Motion Periodic Motion What is Linear Motion? Motion is linear when all the parts of an object move from one place to another at a particular time. It is important to note that if an object moves along the perfectly circular path, an object's motion is not linear. A linear motion has many significant applications in the field of robotic, automation, manufacturing, etc. The high use of this type of motion is seen in linear actuators. Some common examples of linear motion include the followings: The motion of the train on a track The motion of vehicles on a road The motion of a falling apple from a tree, etc. Linear motion is further classified into the following two types: Rectilinear Motion When an object in linear motion moves towards a straight line's path, an object's motion is called a rectilinear motion. A vehicle moving on a straight road and a train moving on a straight-line track are few examples of rectilinear motion. Curvilinear Motion When an object in linear motion moves along the curved path, an object's motion is called a curvilinear motion. A vehicle taking a turn and an object threw up at any angle are few examples of curvilinear motion. What is Rotatory Motion? The rotatory motion refers to a type of motion in which different particles of an object move in a circular path and travel different distances at any specific time intervals. In a rotatory motion, the object typically moves or rotates on its axis. It is also sometimes referred to as the rotational motion and rotary motion. Like linear actuators, rotary actuators are also widespread and can be seen in electric, hydraulic, and pneumatic options. The Earth is constantly rotating on its axis around the sun is the best general-life example of rotatory motion. Other common examples include the followings: A rotating fan A steering wheel of the car A swinging of wheels in vehicles around its axis What is Oscillatory Motion? An oscillatory motion refers to a type of motion in which an object moves or oscillates around its mean position. This means that the object repeats the cycle of motion around its mean position. More specifically, it is the motion of an object that moves like it is doing front and back oscillation repeatedly at certain time intervals. The oscillatory motion is sometimes also known as oscillating motion. The movement of an object is termed oscillations. The motion of a pendulum of a wall clock is the best example of an oscillatory motion. In particular, a pendulum repeats its motion at a specific period without actually displacing it from its position. Although it is somewhat stationary, it is in oscillatory motion. Some other common examples of this type of motion include the followings: A table fan or a wall-fan swinging around different directions (left and right) to release the air is the form of an oscillatory motion. When a child on a single swing is pushed, the swing moves to and fro about its mean position, making an oscillatory motion. Both linear actuators and rotatory actuators have oscillatory motion. The sound waves travel in oscillatory motion. The strings on guitars or sitars move to and fro around their mean position when they are strummed. The movement of strings is an oscillatory motion. What is Periodic Motion? A periodic motion refers to a type of motion in objects that typically repeats itself at equal time intervals. Some examples of objects undergoing periodic motion include the bouncing ball, a moving swing, water waves, a rocking chair, etc. Apart from this, motions that do not repeat are called non-periodic or may fall under other motion types. For instance, the birds gliding across the sky where birds' motion is non-periodic and may usually fall under the linear motion category. Examples that may have more than one type of motion There is nothing wrong with an object having more than one type of motion. It is possible. Let us look at some examples and understand how this can be possible: The Earth: The Earth rotates on its axis, and this is why it has rotational motion. The Earth also repeats its motion around the sun in a circular path at particular intervals (one year). Therefore, it also has periodic motion. Technically, the Earth is having two different types of motion at the same time. Ceiling Fan: If we consider an entire ceiling fan as a whole when it is on, then it has a rotational motion as it rotates on its axis. Besides, when we consider the outer parts (blades), then blades are in periodic motion as they keep following the same circular path at regular intervals. Bicycle: Consider a bicycle that is moving on a straight road. In this case, the wheels of a bicycle rotate around their axis, so there is a rotational motion. Furthermore, the bicycle is moving forward on a straight road, so there is also a rectilinear motion. Sewing Machine: The sewing machine includes a wheel that rotates around its axis. The motion of the sewing machine is the rotational motion. Moreover, the needle continually moves up and down when we operate the sewing machine. The needle of the sewing machine has a periodic motion. Therefore, the sewing machine has two different types of motion such as the rotational and periodic motion. Some other Classifications of Motion Apart from the types mentioned above, we can also distinguish motions according to directions and the state of motion: Classification of Motion According to Directions There are mainly three types of motion depending on the directions, such as: One Dimensional Motion: When the object moves along a straight line, an object's motion is known as the one-dimensional motion. Two Dimensional Motion: When an object moves along a curved path in a plane, an object's motion is known as the two-dimensional (2-D) motion. Three Dimensional Motion: When an object moves randomly in space, an object's motion is known as the three-dimensional (3-D) motion. Classifications of Motion According to State There are mainly two types of motion depending on the state of motion, such as: Uniform Motion: When an object is in motion and travels the equal distance in equal time-periods, the graph drawn between the time and distance is a straight line. This type of motion of an object is called a uniform motion-for example, the Earth's rotation and revolution. Non-Uniform Motion: When an object is in motion and travels the unequal distance in equal time-periods, then an object's motion is known as the non-uniform motion. In non-uniform motion, the graph drawn between the time and distance is usually a curved line. It is also known as an accelerated motion-for example, a freely falling object. Next TopicTypes of Resistors ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
