https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/must-do-coding-questions-for-companies-like-amazon-microsoft-adobe/?ref=shm
Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... - GeeksforGeeks
Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Related Articles ? Related Articles Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Inorder Tree Traversal without Recursion Inorder Tree Traversal without recursion and without stack! Print Postorder traversal from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct Tree from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct a Binary Tree from Postorder and Inorder What is Memory Leak? How can we avoid? Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Difficulty Level : Medium As the placement season is back so are we to help you ace the interview. We have selected some most commonly asked and must do practice problems for you. You can also take part in our mock placement contests which will help you learn different topics and practice at the same time, simulating the feeling of a real placement test environment. Note : Now you can track your progress of these questions Must Do Interview Preparation Course. Preparing for Prouct-Based Companies ? Check Out Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Topic : Arrays String Linked List Stack and Queue Tree and BST Heap Recursion Hashing Graph Greedy Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Bit Magic Arrays : Subarray with given sum Count the triplets Kadane’s Algorithm Missing number in array Merge two sorted arrays Rearrange array alternatively Number of pairs Inversion of Array Sort an array of 0s, 1s and 2s Equilibrium point Leaders in an array Minimum Platforms Reverse array in groups K’th smallest element Trapping Rain Water Pythagorean Triplet Chocolate Distribution Problem Stock buy and sell Element with left side smaller and right side greater Convert array into Zig-Zag fashion Last Index of 1 Spirally traversing a matrix Largest Number formed from an Array Solved the above? Go for some more Questions String : Reverse words in a given string Permutations of a given string Longest Palindrome in a String Recursively remove all adjacent duplicates Check if string is rotated by two places Roman Number to Integer Anagram Remove Duplicates Form a Palindrome Longest Distinct Characters in the string Implement Atoi Implement strstr Longest Common Prefix Solved the above? Go for some more Questions Linked List : Finding middle element in a linked list Reverse a linked list Rotate a Linked List Reverse a Linked List in groups of given size Intersection point in Y shaped linked lists Detect Loop in linked list Remove loop in Linked List n’th node from end of linked list Flattening a Linked List Merge two sorted linked lists Intersection point of two Linked Lists Pairwise swap of a linked list Add two numbers represented by linked lists Check if Linked List is Palindrome Implement Queue using Linked List Implement Stack using Linked List Given a linked list of 0s, 1s and 2s, sort it Delete without head pointer Stack and Queue : Parenthesis Checker Next larger element Queue using two Stacks Stack using two queues Get minimum element from stack LRU Cache Circular tour First non-repeating character in a stream Rotten Oranges Maximum of all subarrays of size k Tree : Print Left View of Binary Tree Check for BST Print Bottom View of Binary Tree Print a Binary Tree in Vertical Order Level order traversal in spiral form Connect Nodes at Same Level Lowest Common Ancestor in a BST Convert a given Binary Tree to Doubly Linked List Write Code to Determine if Two Trees are Identical or Not Given a binary tree, check whether it is a mirror of itself Height of Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum Diameter of a Binary Tree Number of leaf nodes Check if given Binary Tree is Height Balanced or Not Serialize and Deserialize a Binary Tree Solved the above? Go for some more Questions Heap : Find median in a stream Heap Sort Operations on Binary Min Heap Rearrange characters Kth largest element in a stream Merge K sorted linked lists Kth largest element in a stream Recursion : Flood fill Algorithm Number of paths Combination Sum – Part 2 Special Keyboard Josephus problem Hashing : Relative Sorting Sorting Elements of an Array by Frequency Largest subarray with 0 sum Common elements Find all four sum numbers Swapping pairs make sum equal Count distinct elements in every window Array Pair Sum Divisibility Problem Longest consecutive subsequence Array Subset of another array Find all pairs with a given sum Find first repeated character Zero Sum Subarrays Minimum indexed character Check if two arrays are equal or not Uncommon characters Smallest window in a string containing all the characters of another string First element to occur k times Check if frequencies can be equal Graph : Depth First Traversal Breadth First Traversal Detect cycle in undirected graph Detect cycle in a directed graph Topological sort Find the number of islands Implementing Dijkstra Minimum Swaps Strongly Connected Components Shortest Source to Destination Path Find whether path exist Minimum Cost Path Circle of Strings Floyd Warshall Alien Dictionary Snake and Ladder Problem Greedy : Activity Selection N meetings in one room Coin Piles Maximize Toys Page Faults in LRU Largest number possible Minimize the heights Minimize the sum of product Huffman Decoding Minimum Spanning Tree Shop in Candy Store Geek collects the balls Dynamic Programming : Minimum Operations Max length chain Minimum number of Coins Longest Common Substring Longest Increasing Subsequence Longest Common Subsequence 0 – 1 Knapsack Problem Maximum sum increasing subsequence Minimum number of jumps Edit Distance Coin Change Problem Subset Sum Problem Box Stacking Rod Cutting Path in Matrix Minimum sum partition Count number of ways to cover a distance Egg Dropping Puzzle Optimal Strategy for a Game Shortest Common Supersequence Divide and Conquer : Find the element that appears once in sorted array Search in a Rotated Array Binary Search Sum of Middle Elements of two sorted arrays Quick Sort Merge Sort K-th element of two sorted Arrays Backtracking : N-Queen Problem Solve the Sudoku Rat in a Maze Problem Word Boggle Generate IP Addresses Bit Magic : Find first set bit Rightmost different bit Check whether K-th bit is set or not Toggle bits given range Set kth bit Power of 2 Bit Difference Rotate Bits Swap all odd and even bits Count total set bits Longest Consecutive 1’s Sparse Number Alone in a couple Maximum subset XOR Some More Questions on Arrays : Find Missing And Repeating Maximum Index Consecutive 1’s not allowed Majority Element Two numbers with sum closest to zero Nuts and Bolts Problem Boolean Matrix Problem Smallest Positive missing number Jumping Caterpillars Some More Questions on Strings : Most frequent word in an array of strings CamelCase Pattern Matching String Ignorance Smallest window in a string containing all the characters of another string Design a tiny URL or URL shortener Permutations of a given string Non Repeating Character Check if strings are rotations of each other or not Save Ironman Repeated Character Remove common characters and concatenate Geek and its Colored Strings Second most repeated string in a sequence Some more Questions on Trees : Mirror Tree Longest consecutive sequence in Binary tree Bottom View of Binary Tree Lowest Common Ancestor in a Binary Tree Binary to DLL Important Links : Difficulty-wise ordered Coding questions for Interview and Competitive Programming Aptitude questions asked in round 1 : Placements Course designed for this purpose. MCQs asked from different computer science subjects : Subject-Wise Quizzes Interview theory and coding questions of all companies : Company wise all practice questions. Interview experiences of all companies : Interview corner. You may also check our latest online course series to learn DS & Algo is named DSA, which covers everything about Data Structures from Basic to Advanced. Key Features of the Course Well organised tutorials on Data-Structures and Algorithms prepared by the GeeksforGeeks Team. Premium video lectures by Mr. Sandeep Jain, Founder and C.E.O of GeeksforGeeks. Dedicated doubt solving team to assist you. Assessment Tests with Video Solutions. Performance-Based Certificate. Internship Opportunities at GeeksforGeeks. The courses are self-paced: Anyone can register anytime, make payment and begin the course. And, many more. The course is available in two versions: With Doubt Assistance: The price of the self-paced online DSA course with doubt assistance is INR 3,999. Click here to purchase your ticket. Without Doubt Assistance: The price of the self-paced online DSA course without doubt assistance is INR 2,499. Click here to purchase your ticket . Preparing for AMAZON SDE Interview? Do check out Geeksforgeeks Amazon SDE Test-Series. The price of the online AMAZON Test-Series course is INR 499. Geeks Classes Live An interview centric Live session focused on DSA to enhance your coding & problem-solving skills for product-based companies. The price of the LIVE Geeks Class course is INR 9,999. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above Attention reader! Don’t stop learning now. Get hold of all the important DSA concepts with the DSA Self Paced Course at a student-friendly price and become industry ready. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save favorite_border Like first_page Previous Resume Writing For Internship Next last_page Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Recommended Articles Page : Must Do Questions for Companies like TCS, CTS, HCL, IBM … 14, May 19 Why companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Google focuses on Data Structures and Algorithms : Answered 28, Jun 19 Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise 07, Oct 20 Recently Asked Interview Questions in Product Based Companies 01, Feb 21 How to attempt Function Coding Questions? 17, Aug 18 Guide for Non-CS students to get placed in Software companies 21, Jan 18 What is the future of those students who are getting selected in mass recruiting companies 12, Sep 18 Amazon Interview Questions 15, May 14 Amazon’s most frequently asked interview questions | Set 2 19, Sep 16 Must have books for Placements Preparation 05, Jul 18 A Must Do Free Interview Preparation Course by GeeksforGeeks 15, Dec 18 Placement 100 : Complete Interview Preparation package you must have this Placement Season 27, Jun 19 Top 3 tips an interviewee must have in mind 09, Jan 19 Why Data Structures and Algorithms are "Must Have" for Developers and Where to learn them : Answered 15, May 19 Minimum number of rabbits that must be present in the forest 02, Dec 20 How to answer a coding question in an Interview? 13, Sep 17 Practice for cracking any coding interview 21, Sep 18 How to Prepare for Coding and Technical Interview Rounds ? 11, Feb 21 Difference Between Amazon EBS and Amazon EFS 04, Feb 21 10 Most asked Questions from Java Programmers 15, May 15 Top 10 algorithms in Interview Questions 09, Dec 15 Commonly asked Interview Questions for Front End Developers 05, Dec 16 SQL Interview Questions 26, Jan 17 Java Interview Questions on Constructors 07, Apr 17 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Medium Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : interview-preparation placement preparation Articles Report Issue What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Articles SQL | Join (Inner, Left, Right and Full Joins) find command in Linux with examples Commonly Asked Data Structure Interview Questions | Set 1 Analysis of Algorithms | Set 1 (Asymptotic Analysis) How to write a Pseudo Code? More related articles in Articles Analysis of Algorithms | Set 2 (Worst, Average and Best Cases) Understanding "extern" keyword in C Analysis of Algorithms | Set 3 (Asymptotic Notations) SQL | GROUP BY Mutex vs Semaphore Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
