https://www.javatpoint.com/kubernetes-vs-docker
Kubernetes vs. Docker - Javatpoint
Kubernetes vs. Docker - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Kubernetes vs. Docker What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes, being industrialized by Google, is an open-source container management software. In general, Kubernetes is used to manage, scale, and automate the deployment of containerized applications. Containerized Applications can be understood as a process of enclosing an application by combining all of its files, libraries, and packages that are needed while running it on distinct platforms. Kubernetes have become the best replacement for manual interaction. In the earlier times when we used to update all such containerized applications manually, we were required to conduct a regular cycle of processes: discontinuation of the older version, starting the new one, or rolling back to the previous one in case of error. Kubernetes have now overcome all such issues. Features of Kubernetes Kubernetes has the following features: Portable and open-source: Kubernetes is highly compatible crossways different Since it is open-source software, it provides greater flexibility. Workload scalability: Kubernetes is renowned for its systematic behavior. It can automatically add or remove new servers when required. In fact, it can manually scale as many containers as it can by simply changing the number of running containers. High availability: Kubernetes can easily cope up with the availability of both containers and infrastructure. Having said that, Kubernetes possesses reliability, which results in making it more accessible in any physical environment. Storage orchestration: Kubernetes is well known for its ability to organize storage systems such as local storage and public cloud providers. Self-healing: In case if the container fails to respond, the Kubernetes first try to restart it, and if they still don't reply on time, it either replaces the container or kills that container. Automated roll-outs and rollbacks: In general, Kubernetes defines the container's preferred state so as to transform the existing state into the preferred state at a controlled rate. Advantages of Kubernetes Following are the advantages of Kubernetes: Great for multi-cloud adoption In order to select the host as per the desired requirement, the microservice architecture lets you efficiently fragment your application into smaller components encompassing containers that can be run on different cloud environments. Since Kubernetes is one of the best orchestration tools, you can easily use it anywhere. It can be deployed on any of the public/private/hybrid clouds, whereby you can actually reach out to the users placed at a distant location with greater availability and security. Also, it comes with "vendor lock-in" that facilitates avoiding potential hazards. Deploy and update applications at scale for faster time-to-market With the growth of modern software development, Kubernetes keeps pace with its regular demands because, otherwise, large teams will be forced to manually script their own deployment workflows. Better management of your applications Containers help in the breakdown of applications into smaller components so that they can be easily managed via Kubernetes, an orchestration tool. It helps in managing codebases and testing specific inputs and outputs. Disadvantages of Kubernetes Currently, Kubernetes is one of the best orchestration tools out there in the market. But everything is not perfect; it does have some demerits. So, the following are the disadvantages of the Kubernetes: Steep learning curve Quite difficult to migrate to stateless Offers limited functionality in comparison to Docker API Manual installation and configuration requires a lot of effort Absence of High Availability piece Not compatible with existing Docker CLI and Compose tools K8s talent is quite expensive What is Docker? Docker is an OS-level virtualization software platform whereby the developers and IT administrators can create, deploy and run applications in a Docker Container with all their dependencies. Docker Container is a lightweight software package that includes all the dependencies (frameworks, libraries, etc.) required to execute an application. Docker is an open-source containerization platform that helps mechanize the deployment of an application as a lightweight container, which assists in the efficient working of an application in different environments. It is mainly contemplated as a solution that manages the isolated containers. Instead of creating resource-intensive virtual machines, Docker can efficiently put the software code in the containers so that it can be easily utilized in other systems. There are two ways to manage the software; either via a hybrid Cloud or by using the existing physical hardware resources. In simple language, Docker Containers can be understood as virtualized abstract objects, which helps in connecting the code into dependencies (e.g., frameworks, config files, libraries, etc.). In general, Docker is used for building and deploying lightweight applications that are further installed on a single machine's (server or powerful computer) package. In comparison to traditional virtual machines, which are often called hypervisors, the containers improve performance by saving memory and consuming minimalist resources. The applications created based on such containers employ hardware capabilities (including CPU, I/O devices, network devices, etc.) and do not require guest OSs. They mainly use the OS core of the hardware. ADVANTAGES OF DOCKER CONTAINERS Let's take a look at the main pros of Docker Containers: Fast deployment of new services with limited memory and performance resources: Since the Docker Containers are a lightweight alternate to hypervisors, they do not necessitate OS resources and the OS image's full load. The image can be launched from a private- or public-access Cloud, ensuring an instant launch of the software as long as minimum RAM stress load is available. Container not only offers high-speed computation but also necessitates less time to react to user requests. Accelerated software development and deployment: The significant use of Docker Containers can actually lower the consumption of resources that are required for the creation and deployment of new software. Besides, it also alleviates the developer's burden of updating the prevailing network hardware (e.g., a more powerful server). A simple approach to app functionality scaling: In case you are looking to update the prevailing software, the Docker Container will ease your pain as it is mainly designed for migration purposes (i.e., you don't have to change a single line of code while scaling horizontally). High accessibility: Migration to Cloud allows the quick and easy transfer of an app to a new environment for further scaling or making the app business logic more complex. We can easily transfer the Docker Containers to any non-Cloud infrastructure. It also helps in evading the conflicts that have arisen in an OS with the installed software on the hardware level. Decreased chances of conflicts: The third-party applications, as well as their requirements, change in no time. If you are planning to integrate your Docker Containers-based software, you won't have any compatibility problems. This software solution has open-source code at its core, so it can be launched either on Linux and Windows OS, in the Cloud on virtual machines, etc. Decreased downtimes: The process of separating one Docker Container from the other containers is known as isolation. This allows for consistent performance and decreases downtime risks. DISADVANTAGES OF DOCKER CONTAINERS Among the most serious issues that might appear during the employment of the technology, developers point to the target software's vulnerability. For example, if you want to offer access to containers through web servers by utilizing an API, you will be required to thoroughly think through the parameter verification process. In general, you have to take care (e.g., with UNIX checking permissions) that no transformed data is passed in consort with a request by the hackers, which may provoke the generation of new containers. Kubernetes vs. Docker Perhaps each orchestration tool carries a similar purpose, but there exist some fundamental differences like how the two operate. Following are some of the most important points that will help in differentiating Kubernetes from Dockers: Application definition In Kubernetes, we can deploy applications by utilizing a group of pods, deployments, and services (or micro-services). However, in the case of Docker Swarm, we can deploy applications as services (or micro-services) within a Swarm cluster. In order to specify a multi-container, we can use the YAML files, and for deploying the applications, we can use the Docker Compose. Installation and set-up Kubernetes can be manually installed as it requires serious planning for keeping it up and running. Installation instructions may vary from OS-to-OS provider to provider. In Kubernetes, it is necessary to know the cluster configuration, like the IP addresses of a node or what role is taken by which node in advance. However, the installation process of Docker Swarm is quite simple in contrast to Kubernetes. It only requires one set of tools to learn to build upon environment and configuration. Docker Swarm is more flexible as it permits new nodes to join a pre-existing cluster both as a manager or a worker. Working on two systems In order to run Kubernetes on top of Docker, it is necessary to have prior knowledge about CLI (Command Line Interface). One must have hands-on Docker CLI to navigate inside a structure and supplemental Kubernetes common language infrastructure to run such programs. Since Docker Swarm is itself a Docker tool, the same language is utilized to navigate within a structure. It provides variability as well as speeds up to the tool by offering a significant usability edge. Logging and monitoring Kubernetes extends its supports to multiple versions of logging and monitoring as when the services get deployed within the cluster: Elasticsearch/Kibana (ELK) logs within the container Heapster/Grafana/ Influx for monitoring in the container Sysdig cloud integration Whereas Docker Swarm can only support monitoring with third-party applications. In order to monitor using the Docker Swarm, it is highly suggested to use it with Reimann, and since Docker is an open API, it can be easily utilized to connect with several apps. Scalability For distributed system, Kubernetes can be defined as an all-in-one framework. Since it offers a unified set of APIs, it is considered to be one of the complex systems which slow down the deployment and scaling of a container. In contrast to Kubernetes, Docker Swarm, the deployment rate of containers are much faster, which results in quick scaling as per the demand. High availability In order to provide high availability at the time of application failure, Kubernetes distributes all of its pods among nodes. In Kubernetes, load-balancing services can easily perceive unnatural pods and eradicate them, so it can be concluded that it supports high availability. Docker Swarm also provides high availability as it can replicate the services in Swarm nodes. In Docker Swarm, Swarm manager nodes play a crucial role as they are the one who is responsible for the whole cluster and also it manages the resources of worker nodes. Networking Since every individual pod can communicate with each other, so we can conclude that the Kubernetes network is flat as it also necessitates two CIDRs such that the first one requires pods to get an IP address and the other is for services. In a Docker Swarm, a node connecting a cluster forms a network connection that spans all of the Swarm hosts and a host-only Docker bridge network for containers. In Docker Swarm, users can encrypt container data traffic when creating an overlay network on their own. Next TopicSocket.IO ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
