https://www.javatpoint.com/ubuntu-vs-kali-linux
Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux - javatpoint
Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Ubuntu Ubuntu is a Linux-based operating system. Ubuntu belongs to Debian family of the Linux. As we know, ubuntu is Linux based, thus, Ubuntu is an open- source, and is freely available. The term Ubuntu is derived from an African word that means 'humanity to others. Ubuntu was developed by the team "Canonical" lead by Mark Shuttleworth. Ubuntu's Chinese version is used for running the faster supercomputer around the world. The stripped version of ubuntu is used by the self-driving car of Google. Features of Ubuntu There are various features of Ubuntu: Ubuntu supports the office suite called LibreOffice. Ubuntu's desktop version supports all the normal software on Windows, for example, VLC, Firebox, Chrome, etc. With the help of the smart searching facility, we can find the content easily on Ubuntu. Various apps are freely available for users to view and edit photos. In Ubuntu, there are various applications in order to handle the videos, and it also permits the users to share videos. In Ubuntu, there is an in-built software known as Thunderbird that gives the user access to mail like Gmail, Hotmail, Exchange, etc. Best Ubuntu-Based Linux Distributions Following are the best Ubuntu-Based Linux Distributions: Linux Mint Elementary OS POP! OS Kubuntu Lubuntu Xubuntu Ubuntu Budgie KDE Neon Zorin OS Advantages of Ubuntu There are various advantages of Ubuntu: Ubuntu is completely customizable Ubuntu is secure Ubuntu is free Ubuntu is user-friendly It is open source Ubuntu is the most familiar Linux based operating system In ubuntu, some of the soft-wares are pre-installed in order to improve the user-experience. 512 MB RAM 5 GB space should be free on a hard drive. Graphics card with 800*600 resolution USB port and DVD drive for the media installation Kali Linux Kali Linux was developed by "offensive Security." Kali Linux is Linux based operating system. It is open-source, so anyone can use it freely. Kali Linux belongs to Linux's Debian family. In March 2013, the Kali Linux was developed. Kali Linux comprises more than 100 penetration testing, ethical hacking tools, digital forensics, security research, and reverse engineering. Features of Kali Linux There are various features of Kali Linux: Easy upgrade to future versions. Switched from Ubuntu to Debian. Kali Linux support multi-language More than 600 applications, from password crackers to Digital Forensics software. GPG signed packages and repositories Developed in a secure environment Wide-ranging wireless device support Kali Linux is completely free. Advantages of Kali Linux There are various advantages of the Kali Linux: Kali Linux is one of the best operating systems for Linux purpose. The Kali Linux is developed in a secured environment. It includes many security protocols. Kali Linux supports various languages, so we can easily use it in our native language. Customization in Kali Linux is so easy. Kali Linux permits users to easily locate binaries, libraries, and support files. Kali Linux supports ARMEL and ARMHF. Kali Linux also supports various wireless devices. Kali Linux is freely available. Kali Linux also replaced the BackTrack. Difference Between Ubuntu and Kali Linux S.No. Ubuntu Kali Linux 1. Ubuntu has been developed by canonical. Kali Linux has been developed by offensive security. 2. We use Ubuntu for daily use or on the server. For security reasons, ethical hackers or security researchers use Kali Linux. 3. On October 20, 2004, Ubuntu was initially released. On March 13, 2013, Kali was initially released. 4. By default, Gnome-terminal is used by the latest version of Ubuntu. By default, qterminal is used by the latest version of Kali. 5. Ubuntu is a good beginner alternative to Linux. Kali Linux is a good choice for intermediate people in Linux. 6. (blank) is the default password of the latest Ubuntu live. Kali is the default password of the latest Kali Linux. 7. Root is the default username of the latest Ubuntu live. Kali is the default username of the latest kali live. 8. Ubuntu has a user-friendly interface. As compared to Ubuntu, Kali Linux has a less user-friendly interface. 9. In Ubuntu, there is no hacking and penetration testing tools. In Kali Linux, there is hacking and penetration testing tools. 10. The latest version of Ubuntu contains the Gnome environment by default; however, it permits us to modify the same. The latest version of the kali contains the xfce environment by default; however, it permits us to modify the same. Next TopicClear cache Linux ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
