https://www.javatpoint.com/no-suitable-driver-found-for-jdbc
No Suitable Driver Found For JDBC - Javatpoint
No Suitable Driver Found For JDBC - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev No Suitable Driver Found For JDBC No suitable driver found for JDBC is an exception in Java that generally occurs when any driver is not found for making the database connectivity. In this section, we will discuss why we get such an error and what should be done to get rid of this exception so that it may not occur the next time. Before discussing the exception, we should take a brief knowledge that what is a JDBC Driver. What is a JDBC Driver The JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) Driver is a driver that makes connectivity between a database and Java software. The JDBC driver can be understood as a driver that lets the database and Java application interact with each other. In JDBC, there are four different types of drivers that are to be used as per the requirement of the application. These JDBC divers are: JDBC-ODBC bridge driver Thin Layer driver Native API driver Network Protocol Driver All four drivers have their own usage as well as pros and cons. To know more about JDBC Drivers, do visit: https://www.javatpoint.com/jdbc-driver section of our Java tutorial. What is the Error and Why it Occurs? Generally, "no suitable driver found" refers to throwing an error, i.e., "java.sql.SQLException: No suitable driver found for jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/test" in the console. The error occurs when we are trying to connect to the MySql (or any other) database that is existing on your local machine, i.e., localhost, and listens to the specified port number which is set for the mysql and it founds that either no JDBC driver was registered before invoking the DriverManager.getConnection () method or we might not have added the MySQL JDBC driver to the classpath in the IDE. In case we are running a simple Java code with no requirement of database connectivity, the Java API executes it correctly and well, but if there is the need for a JDBC driver, an error is thrown, which is the "class not found" error. In simple words, such an error is thrown when no suitable driver is found by the Java API so that it could connect the Java application to the database. How to remove the error Now the question is how to get rid of such error. In order to resolve the problem or error, one needs to add the MYSQL Connector JAR to the classpath because the classpath includes the JDBC Driver for the MYSQL through which the connection is generated between the Java code and the database. In order to add the MYSQL connector JAR file to the IDE or tool we are using, we need to go through some quite simple steps. These steps are as follows: For Eclipse and NetBeans IDE 1) Open any internet browser on the system and search for MySQL Connector download in the search tab. Several downloading links will appear. Click on the MYSQL website https://www.mysql.com/products/connector/ from it and download the latest version of the MYSQL connector by selecting your system specs. 2) After the successful download of the MYSQL Connector, it will be seen at the default Downloads folder of your system, as you can see in the below snippet: 3) Now, open the IDE you are working upon, either NetBeans or Eclipse, and also any other tool/IDE, whichever you use. Here, we have used Eclipse IDE. 4) Go to your project and right-click on it. A list of options will appear. Select and click on Build Path > Configure Build Path, and the Java Build Path dialog box will open up, as you can see in the below snippet: 5) Click on Add External JARs and move to the location where you have downloaded the Mysql Connector, as you can see in the below snippet: 6) Select the Mysql Connector and click on Open. The JAR file will get added to your project build path, as you can see in the below snippet: 7) Click on Apply and Close, and the JDBC Driver will be added to your Eclipse IDE. 8) Run the JDBC connection code once again, and this time you will not get the "No suitable driver found for JDBC" exception instead of other errors if you made any other syntax problem. 9) The JDBC Driver will get connected successfully, and the connection will get established successfully. Note: If you want to know how to make JDBC Connectivity in Java, visit https://www.javatpoint.com/example-to-connect-to-the-mysql-database Point to be noted: If you are using Java SE 6 with JDBC 4.0, then you may not require to load and register the driver because the new Java feature provides autoloading of the JDBC driver class. Due to which there is no requirement of using Class.forName("com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"); statement. However, if the JDBC Jar you are using is old, i.e., JDBC 4.0 compliant with Java SE 6, then you may need to create this statement. In brief, we can say that such an error occurs when no JDBC JAR file is added to the classpath of Java. Just we need to add the JAR file to the classpath and then execute the code. The code will hopefully get executed with success. Next TopicAVL Tree program in Java ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
