https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-commands-to-check-disk-space
Linux Commands to Check Disk Space - javatpoint
Linux Commands to Check Disk Space - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Linux Commands to Check Disk Space There are many ways by which we can check the Linux system disk space. We can use a third-party app which displays the available disk space. Another way is the command-line by the Linux Terminal, some of which are df and du, where du means disk space used and df means disk space free. 1. Using du Command We can check the disk space with the help of the du command. The full-form of du is "Disk Usage." The du command shows the usage of disk. The du command will show you the disk usage for specific directories in Linux. Syntax: 
$ du
 du -h: - This will show you the disk usage in a human-readable format for each directory and subdirectory. Syntax: 
$ du -h
 du -a: - This will show you the disk usage for all the files. Syntax: 
$ du -a 
 du -s: - This will show you the total disk space used by a specific directory or file. Syntax: 
$ du -s
 du -help: - we can use this for help. Syntax 
$ du -help
 2. Using the df option The full-form of df command is "disk-free,". Using this command, we can check the used and available disk space in the Linux system. Syntax: 
$ df [optios].........FILESYSTEM.........
 When we use this command with no parameter, then this command will show you the information related to all the mounted file systems: 
$ df
 The following columns are contained in each line: "Filesystem" - The filesystem's name. "1K-blocks"- The filesystem's size in 1K blocks. "Used"- Used means the used space in 1K blocks. "Available" - Available means space available in 1K blocks. "Use%"- The percentage of the used space. "Mounted on"- The directory on which the filesystem is mounted/ If we want to show the information for a particular file system only, we can pass the name or the mount point of the file system to the df command. For example, if we need to display the space which is available on the file system mounted to the root directory (/) then we can use the df/dev/nvme0n1p3 or df/. Syntax: 
$ df /
 Show Disk Space Usage in Huma Readable Format By default, this command will display the disk space in 1-kilobyte blocks, and the size of available and used disk space will display in kilobytes. If we want to show the details of disk drives in a human-readable format such as gigabytes, megabytes, kilobytes etc., then we have to use the df command along with the option -h. Syntax: 
$ df -h
 File System Types If we notice all the command output, we can see no Linux file system type specified in the results. In order to check the file system type of our system, we can use the 'T' option. The 'T' option will show the file system type with other information. We can use the -T option to tell df to display the file system types: Syntax: 
$ df -T
 The output contains an extra column named "Type: which displaying the filesystem's type. Display Inode Usage An inode is a data structure in Linux and Unix file systems including information of a file or directory like owner, size, device node, pipe, socket, etc. If we invoke this with the -i option, then the df command prints information related to the filesystem inodes usage.. The above command will display the details of inodes on the file system which is mounted to the root directory of the system in a human-readable format. When we use the -i option, then each output's line contains the following columns: "filesystem" -The filesystem's name. "Inodes" - Inodes means the total number of inodes on the file system. "IUsed" - Iused means a number of used inodes. "IFree"- IFree means the number of free inodes. "IUSE%"- IUse means the percentage of used inodes. "Mounted on" - Mounted on means the directory on which the filesystem is mounted. Display Information of /home File System If we want to see the information of only the device /home file system in the human-readable format, then we can use the following command: 
$ df -hT /home
 Display Information of File System in Bytes If want to see the information and usage of file system in 1024-byte blocks, then we can use the '-k' option. Syntax: 
$ df -k
 Display Information of File System in MB We can use the '-m' option in order to show the information of all file system usage in MegaByte (MB). Display Information of File System in GB We can use the 'df -h' option if we want to show information of all file system statistics in Gigabyte (GB). Syntax: 
$ df -h
 Next TopicManjaro Vs. Ubuntu ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
