https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-thermometer
Types of Thermometer - Javatpoint
Types of Thermometer - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Thermometer The invention of the thermometer has become useful for various industries. However, they have been most important for the development of medical practices in the health industry. Thermometers have become an integral tool for properly measuring body temperature in the medical field. This ultimately helps in taking appropriate steps for care and getting ideas to diagnose other related conditions. However, there are many types of thermometers that we can choose from. But only the right one will help in measuring temperature properly. Therefore, it is necessary to know about different thermometers before choosing any particular one for personal or laboratory preferences. In this article, we are discussing the major types of thermometers and their applications. Let's have a quick overview of thermometers: What is a Thermometer? A thermometer refers to the specific type of instrument primarily used to measure the temperature of objects. In other words, a thermometer is a specific device designed primarily to measure temperature gradient, meaning the degree of hotness/ coldness in objects. A typical thermometer consists of two primary components: the temperature sensor and the numerical reading to make the temperature measurement visible in numerical value. The thermometer was first introduced by German physicist Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit. He is also called the father of thermometers. It is important to note that thermometers measure temperatures, not heat. Heat mainly refers to a form of energy, while the temperature is the mathematical representation of heat. The temperature is usually measured in Kelvin (K), Celsius (?C), and Fahrenheit (?F). Properties of Thermometric Liquid The thermometers typically include some liquids (usually mercury) to indicate the temperature of objects. Such a liquid is called a thermometric liquid. The liquid used in thermometers must have some basic properties, such as: The thermal expansion of the liquid used inside the thermometer should be uniform. The freezing point should be low. In traditional thermometers, the liquid should be visible to indicate the temperature level of the objects properly. Note: Mercury is considered the best thermometric liquid due to the highest coefficient of expansion. This means that it remains in liquid form at most temperature levels. Therefore, it is used for measuring high temperatures. Furthermore, it does not stick to the thermometer's glass surface and has a luminous appearance, making the temperature readings clear. Types of Thermometer Thermometers are available in a wide variety based on their specific requirements. As we discussed above, they mainly help measure the temperature of objects (living and non-living). Therefore, there is one particular set of thermometers that is used to measure body temperatures. In contrast, another set of thermometers is used to measure boiling point temperatures and freezing points in experiments or laboratory tests. Based on their needs, thermometers are broadly classified into the following two categories: Clinical Thermometers Laboratory Thermometers Let us discuss each type in detail: Clinical Thermometers Clinical thermometers, also called medical thermometers, are particularly designed for clinical purposes. These thermometers are used to measure temperature in the human body. A basic clinical thermometer is made using a long narrow glass tube with a bulb containing mercury at its end. The mercury-level indicates the temperature of the human body. But mercury is a toxic element and can act as a poison. Therefore, these thermometers are replaced by modern thermometers that are digital and can measure the temperature without even touching the body. It is always recommended to sterilize these thermometers before use. The average temperature of the human body is 37 ?C. This can fluctuate between 35 ?C to 42 ?C. Therefore, the clinical thermometers are designed with a temperature range of 35 ?C to 42 ?C. The following are different types of clinical thermometers that we use daily to measure body temperature: Digital Thermometer Digital thermometers typically operate using heat sensors, which help determine the temperature of the human body. Also, they contain an electronic circuit and a display screen to display the temperature readings. They can be used to record readings from under the tongue, under the armpit, or from the rectum. Digital thermometers are an advanced type of thermometers. These types of thermometers are considered the most accurate type of thermometers when used accurately. Furthermore, they are easy to use, inexpensive, and easily available. Electronic Ear Thermometer Electronic ear thermometers are designed to determine body temperature from inside the ear canal using infrared technology. Since they measure temperature using the tympanic membrane inside the ear, they are also known as tympanic thermometers. These thermometers are best suited for children. However, they are expensive and may not correctly measure the body temperature if the thermometer is not placed properly in the ear or there is too much wax inside the ear. Electronic ear thermometers measure the body temperature using infrared energy given off by the heat source. Therefore, these thermometers are quick to capture body temperatures. Forehead Thermometer Just like the electronic ear thermometers, the forehead thermometers also read heat using infrared technology. They capture the superficial temporal artery's temperature, a sub-branch of the carotid artery, using infrared sensors. These thermometers are modern and have become very popular in measuring people's temperatures in airports, stations, stores, and stadiums. The primary reason for their popularity is their non-contact behavior. This means forehead thermometers do not require physical contact while taking temperature readings. Forehead thermometers are also not accurate as traditional digital thermometers, and the temperature readings in these thermometers usually run around 1°F (0.6°C) cooler than the digital thermometers. Pacifier Thermometer Pacifier thermometers are primarily designed for babies older than three months. If a baby is comfortable using a pacifier, this can be the easiest way to determine the body temperature. Although pacifier thermometers are easy to use, they are not precisely accurate and capture approximate body temperatures. They need the baby to be still for a couple of minutes when measuring the body temperate, which can be a struggle. This can sometimes result in inaccurate temperature readings. Plastic Strip Thermometer Plastic strip thermometers are not effective for measuring body temperatures as they do not provide exact temperature readings. These thermometers are more like tests than thermometers. They act as an indication that can help determine the presence of a fever in humans. We must put the strip on our forehead to use plastic strip thermometers, and the colors on the strip will change accordingly to the body temperature. If the color changes to danger, then there are chances of the presence of the fever. These thermometers cannot be trusted. Also, they are disposable single-phase thermometers. Mercury Thermometer Mercury thermometers are the basic thermometers, and they were once the only option available to measure body temperature. They are the most accurate thermometers and used similarly to digital thermometers. However, these thermometers do not use any battery and have no electronic circuits or display. Mercury thermometers are made from a glass tube that has a various temperature reading on it. The mercury in liquid form is filled inside the glass at one end. When we put this thermometer under the tongue, the mercury starts rising according to the body temperature. Once the mercury stops, the corresponding reading is body temperature. However, mercury thermometers are no longer widely used due to safety concerns (mercury poisoning) and are illegal in some countries. Laboratory Thermometers Because we cannot use clinical thermometers for measuring temperatures other than a human body, and therefore, some specific thermometers are available for measuring temperatures for other purposes. More specifically, laboratory thermometers are the type of thermometer used to measure temperatures other than body temperatures. These thermometers are also sometimes known as lab thermometers. They help measure boiling points, freezing points, and many other objects' temperatures in labs or testing. Laboratory temperatures are purposely designed for lab purposes, and therefore, they should never be used for clinical or medical purposes. Besides, maximum-minimum thermometers help weather analyzers measure maximum and minimum temperatures at any specific location. Laboratory thermometers generally come with a temperature range of from - 10 ?C to 110 ?C. There is a wide range of laboratory thermometers depending on the variety of temperature measurements. The following are some of the most common types: Liquid-in-Glass Thermometer As the name suggests, the liquid-in-glass thermometers are constructed using a sealed glass containing a liquid such as mercury or red alcohol. The volume of liquids in the thermometers changes according to the temperature. When the temperature increases, the liquid expands accordingly. This further helps indicate the temperature by the rinsing level of a liquid in the glass tube. Due to a glass tube, these thermometers are fragile. Therefore, they are mounted within protective housings with temperature readings printed on them. Furthermore, liquid-in-glass thermometers are handy, cheaper, and best suited for areas where there is an electrical problem as they do not require a power supply or a battery. Bimetallic Strip Thermometer Bimetallic strip thermometers are made by using two different metals. The metals are bonded so that they expand at different rates when they feel an increase in temperature. The two metals used in these thermometers also expand to different lengths. Therefore, the bimetallic strip typically bends or curls towards the relevant side with a lower thermal expansion coefficient. As soon as the bimetallic strip moves, it deflects a pointer over a calibrated scale which further helps determine the corresponding temperature. Moreover, bimetallic thermometers are rigid, inexpensive, easy to install and use. Thermocouple Thermometer Thermocouple thermometers are made of electrical circuits surrounded by a box-shaped casing and two wires of different metals attached at the upper side's two ends. One wire-junction is placed on the object while the other one is placed at a constant lower temperature. Since both wire-junction are connected to a measuring instrument, the temperature difference forms an electromotive force, which is almost proportional to the difference in temperatures between both junctions. The measured temperature is displayed on the instrument. These thermometers are generally used to measure temperatures up to 2800 K. The thermocouple thermometers are also referred to as the thermal junction thermoelectric thermometer. Pyrometer Thermometer Pyrometer thermometers or pyrometers are remote-sensing devices that help capture temperatures of distant objects. These thermometers typically determine the object's temperatures based on the thermal radiation emitted by them. One of the main advantages of these thermometers is that there is no need to touch objects. Therefore, pyrometers are best suited for measuring the temperatures of moving objects or surfaces. Moreover, they are also helpful in measuring those objects' temperatures that cannot be touched due to their complex structure or the higher temperatures. Pyrometers are generally used to measure temperatures greater than 2000 K. Platinum Resistance Thermometer Platinum resistance thermometers typically measure the temperature by using a platinum wire. The wire is connected to an electrical resistance that changes based on the nearest temperature. This means the resistance of the material used in these thermometers increases with the increase in temperature. Platinum resistance temperatures are mainly designed to determine the outside temperatures. Although the temperature accuracy is quite good, these thermometers are a bit slow. These types of thermometers are generally used to measure temperatures in the ranges between 500 K to 2300 K. Probe Thermometer Probe thermometers are one of the most common and widely used types of thermometers. They are mainly used to take instant temperature readings of foods and liquids samples. These thermometers' instant temperature readings make them ideal for the catering trade for hygiene testing in retail outlets and laboratories. Probe thermometers typically contain a pointed tip that helps these thermometers in penetration and immersion. Probes are available in two types, such as the fixed probes and the wired probes thermometers. Which type of thermometer is most accurate for measuring body temperature? Choosing the best and most accurate thermometer is always very important. A thermometer that we can use comfortably is usually the best one. However, digital thermometers are always preferred over other thermometers by many medical professionals when it comes to accuracy. It is crucial to use the thermometer properly; otherwise, the reading might not be correct. The temperature readings usually vary for the same thermometers based on how and where it is used. The digital thermometers can measure body temperature from under the tongue (oral temperature), the armpit, or the rectum. While rectum readings are considered the most accurate for babies and children, the oral readings are very reliable for other age groups. Next TopicTypes of Transformer ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
