https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-watch-command
Linux Watch Command - javatpoint
Linux Watch Command - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Linux Watch Command In Linux, we use the watch command in order to execute the program at regular intervals, displaying output in Fullscreen. Watch command can run the definite command in the parameter constantly by displaying its output and errors. By default, in every 2 seconds, the specified command run, and the watch will run till interrupted. Watch command is helpful if we need to execute the command continually and watch the output of the command change periodically. For example, the watch command can be used to monitor the system uptime and disk usage. Watch is pre-installed in almost every Linux distribution, and it is a part of the procps package. How to Use Watch Command If we want to use the watch command, then we have to follow the following syntax: 
Watch [options] command
 In order to understand how the watch command operates, we run the date command: 
$ watch date
 In the above image, we can see that the watch command will remove all the terminal content temporarily and begin running the given command periodically. If we use with no option, then the watch will run the specified command every two seconds. We can see the watch update interval and the executed command, which is every 2.0s: date, at the top left of the screen header, while the clock at the top left watch displays the current date and time. If we need to stop using the header, we have to use the option -t (--no-title). The specified command's output is shown on the screen and repeatedly updated in every two seconds. We have to enter the Ctrl+C key if we want to exit out of the watch command. Options: -d, -differences We use this option to highlight the modification between two successive updates. The -d, -difference option read the alternative argument that makes the modification permanent, permitting the user to see what has been modified slightly once since the first iteration. Example: 
watch -d free -m
 -n, -interval seconds We use this option to determine the update interval. This command is not quicker to allow than 0.1 second interval, with the smaller values being changed. Example: 
watch -n 1 free -m
 -p, -precise Using this option, watch attempt to run the command every interval seconds. Example: 
watch -p free -m
 -t, -no-title With the help of this option, the header can turn off, which displays the command, current time, and interval at the screen's top. -b, -beep If the command has a non-zero exit, then this option will give a beep. Example: 
watch -b free -m
 -e, -errexit The -e, -errexit option freezes the updates on command error and then exit after a key press. 
watch -e free -m
 -g, -chgexit The -g, -chgexit option exit if the command's output exit. -c, -color The -c, -color option interprets the style sequences and ANSI color. -x, -exec This option is given to the sh -c that means we may need to use additional quoting in order to get the desired effect. Watch -h The watch -h option is used to display the help message and exit. Example: 
watch -h
 Watch -v The watch -v option will show the information of the version and exit. Example: 
watch -v
 Next TopicUbuntu Vs. Kali Linux ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
