https://www.javatpoint.com/pid-controller
PID Controller - Javatpoint
PID Controller - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev PID Controller PID controller is a combination of the Proportional, Integral, and Derivative control modes. It is the most powerful controller action that is a combination of all three modes. PID controller is based on the control loop feedback mechanism. It is used in various applications that require modulated control in a continuous form. The feedback control system improves stability, meet performance specifications, improve disturbance rejection, etc. PID controller specifies how the performance specifications are affected by adjusting the three controllers' gain (Proportional, Integral, and Derivative). Let's first discuss what controllers are. Controllers The controllers decide the kind of actions taken in response to an error. A controller generally uses the difference between set point (SP) and measurement signal to develop the output signal. A controller serves as the front end in the closed-loop control system operation. The block diagram representation of a closed-loop system is shown below: The three operations are responsible for achieving the desired control action, which is listed below: Measurement It measures the output value of the controller variables. Decision It determines the error particularly, SetPoint (SP) - measured value (MV), and uses it to form the control action. Manipulation The control action is used to manipulate a variable in order to reduce the error. Mathematical Expression of PID Controller The analytical expression of the PID Controller can be written as: Taking the Laplace transform of the above equation, we get: The three terms used in the expression (Kp, Ki, and Kd) are the gain of the Proportional controller, Integral controller, and the Derivative controller. We know that the PID controller is a combination of these three controllers. Hence, the equation formed is the combination of the proportional gain, integral gain, and derivative gain. Let's discuss the three controllers in detail. Proportional Controller The output in the proportional controller is directly proportional to the input. It is considered as the most common controller action where the output is directly proportional to the input. Here, the input is the error signal. The basic equation of the proportional controller is: Error = Set point (r) - measured value (c) m=Kpe+mo Where, m is the controller output Kp is the proportional gain constant mo is the controller output with no error percentage The transfer function can be written as: Gc(s) = Kp The controller's output depends only on the size of the error at the instant of the concerned time. The block diagram of the system is shown below: The constant gain tends to exit only over a certain range of errors. Such a range is called a proportional band. It is given by: Kp = 100/Proportional Band (PB) Advantages The advantages of the proportional controller are listed below: Proportion Controller improves the response of the system. It helps to reduce the steady state error of the system. Characteristics of Proportional Controller The characteristics are listed below: The steady state action of the proportional controller can be reduced by selecting a large value the gain K. But, the high gain tends to destabilize the higher order plants. The increase in the proportional gain leads to the decrease of the offset error. The increasing gain of the proportional controller causes the reduction of the closed loop time constant. It further speeds up the system response. Integral Controller Integral control is used when we want the controller action to correct from any steady and continuing offset to the desired reference signal. The block diagram of the Integral Controller is shown below: The steady state error cannot be 0 until the proportional gain is not equal to infinity. But, it is practically impossible. So, without the excessive increase of Kp, the Integral Controller can increase the controller output. The output will be: Let us assume the output of the controller as: The steady state error of the Integral controller is 0 when the value of Kp approaches to infinity, as shown below: From the above statement, we can conclude the following: The steady state error is 0, with the integrator (1/s) as the controller. 1/s is the input as R(s), as: The order of the system has been increased from one to two. For higher order systems, the addition of the extra pole may lead to instability. Thus, we can say that: The addition of an integrator to the system or the pole at the origin reduces the steady-state error to zero. But, it may not work for higher-order systems. The Integral controller's main advantage is the increase in the system type by one, as discussed above. Derivative Controller It is used when the controller needs to have the rate of change of the error (e) signal in control action. It has the derivative form, where the controller output is proportional to the error (e) with time. It is expressed as: Output = Kd de/dt Where, Kd is the derivative gain. The output of the derivative controller does not depend on the past or present error. Instead, it depends on the rate of the changing error. A derivative controller can provide a large corrective action before a large error occurs. If the error is constant, corrective action cannot take place. The derivative controller needs care for its operation. It works with a small gain. A rapid change of error in the derivative controller can cause large or sudden changes in the controller output. Characteristics of the Derivative Controller The controller output is zero if the error is constant or zero. It gives an output if there is an error changing in time. Let's consider an example. Example: Consider the system with G(s) = 1/Js^2 as a rotational element with J as the moment of Inertia. It depicts that the poles lies on the imaginary axis if we increase the gain from zero to infinity. The response of the system in this case is purely oscillatory. Proportional-Derivative Controller The analytical expression formed contains the gain of the two controllers, Proportional and Derivative. It comprises of gain constant, as shown below: The Proportional-Derivative controller is used to remove the oscillations that occurred in the Derivative controller. It is also allowing a higher proportional gain setting. Let's consider the block diagram of PD controller. Characteristics The characteristics of the Proportional Derivative controller are as follows: The derivative term in the above equation acts on the rate of change of the error signal. The output of the PD controller is proportional to the rate of change of the error signal. The derivative term anticipates the large overshoot of the system when the rate of change of error is high and takes corrective action. Proportional Integral Controller The proportional Integral controller is generally used in slow-to-moderate speed processes. We know that an Integral controller tends to reduce the relative stability of the system. It can be overcome by adding a proportional controller to it. The block diagram of the Integral controller is shown below: Thus, the Integral controller is frequently combined with the proportional mode to provide the automatic next action that eliminates the proportional offset. The output of the PI controller is the combination of their respective gain constants, as shown below: The PI controller is also used on processes with a large load change when the proportional mode cannot reduce the offset to the desired level. The proportional offset is eliminated by the reset action provided by the Integral controller. Applications of PID Controllers PID controllers are used in various applications to regulate different process variables, such as temperature, pressure, and speed. Let's discuss some common applications of the PID controllers. Temperature Control PID Controller is a part of the temperature control system. It accepts temperature from the input, such as a thermocouple or temperature sensor, and compares the value to the desired set point or actual temperature value. The output is further provided to the control element. The applications are Baking, heat treatment of metals, etc. Converters PID controllers are used as converters in the applications of power electronics. The output is controlled in order to get the maximum power output. The applications are Brushless DC Motor, etc. Advantages of PID Controllers The combination of the three controllers gives the perfect tracking of the system. Let's consider some advantages of the PID controllers. The integral controller helps in rejecting the constant disturbance inputs. It helps to stabilize the second-order system. It has the perfect tracking of the step signals because of the integral control. We can place the poles through the multiple degrees of freedom offered by the Proportional Integral Derivative Controller. Next TopicSolder ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
