https://www.javatpoint.com/microservices
Microservices | Microservices With Spring Cloud Tutorial - javatpoint
Microservices | Microservices With Spring Cloud Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Microservices Core Java Servlet JSP Struts2 Hibernate Spring Android Design Pattern Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Microservices Tutorial Microservices Tutorial Advantages and Disadvantages of Microservices Challenges of Microservices Architecture Difference between MSA and SOA Microservices Monitoring and Virtualization Tool Microservices Components and Standardizing Port and URL Creating a Simple Microservice Setting up Spring Cloud Config Server Connect Spring Cloud Config Server to Local Git Repository Introduction to Currency Conversion and Currency Exchange Service Configure JPA and Initialized Data Creating a JPA Repository Setting up Currency Conversion Microservice Invoking Currency Exchange Microservice from Currency Conversion Microservice Using Feign REST Client for Service Invocation Client Side Load Balancing with Ribbon Eureka Naming Server Connecting Microservice to Eureka Distributing Calls Using Eureka and Ribbon Introduction to API Gateway Zuul API Gateway Implementing Zuul Logging Filter Executing a Request through Zuul API Gateway Introduction to Distributed Tracing Installing RabbitMQ Server Distributed Tracing with Zipkin Connecting Microservices to Zipkin Understanding the need for Spring Cloud Bus Implementing Spring Cloud Bus Fault Tolerance with Hystrix next ? Microservices Tutorial Microservice Architecture is a Service Oriented Architecture. In the microservice architecture, there are a large number of microservices. By combining all the microservices, it constructs a big service. In the microservice architecture, all the services communicate with each other. In the Microservices tutorial, we will understand how to implement microservices using Spring Cloud. We will learn how to establish communication between microservices, enable load balancing, scaling up and down of microservices. We will also learn to centralize the configuration of microservices with Spring Cloud Config Server. We will implement Eureka Naming Server and Distributed tracing with Spring Cloud Sleuth and Zipkin. We will create fault tolerance microservices with Zipkin. Our microservices tutorial discusses the basic functionalities of Microservice Architecture along with relevant examples for easy understanding. What are Microservices Definition: According to Sam Newman, "Microservices are the small services that work together." According to James Lewis and Martin Fowler, "The microservice architectural style is an approach to develop a single application as a suite of small services. Each microservice runs its process and communicates with lightweight mechanisms. These services are built around business capabilities and independently developed by fully automated deployment machinery." There is a bare minimum of centralized management of these services, which may be written in different programming language and use different data storage technologies. Points to remember These are the services which are exposed by REST. These are small well-chosen deployable units. The services must be cloud-enabled. The microservice defines an approach to the architecture that divides an application into a pool of loosely coupled services that implements business requirements. It is next to Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). The most important feature of the microservice-based architecture is that it can perform continuous delivery of a large and complex application. Microservice helps in breaking the application and build a logically independent smaller applications. For example, we can build a cloud application with the help of Amazon AWS with minimum efforts. In the above figure, each microservice has its own business layer and database. If we change in one microservice, it does not affect the other services. These services communicate with each other by using lightweight protocols such as HTTP or REST or messaging protocols. Principles of Microservices There are the following principles of Microservices: Single Responsibility principle Modelled around business domain Isolate Failure Infrastructure automation Deploy independently Single Responsibility Principle The single responsibility principle states that a class or a module in a program should have only one responsibility. Any microservice cannot serve more than one responsibility, at a time. Modeled around business domain Microservice never restrict itself from accepting appropriate technology stack or database. The stack or database is most suitable for solving the business purpose. Isolated Failure The large application can remain mostly unaffected by the failure of a single module. It is possible that a service can fail at any time. So, it is important to detect failure quickly, if possible, automatically restore failure. Infrastructure Automation The infrastructure automation is the process of scripting environments. With the help of scripting environment, we can apply the same configuration to a single node or thousands of nodes. It is also known as configuration management, scripted infrastructures, and system configuration management. Deploy independently Microservices are platform agnostic. It means we can design and deploy them independently without affecting the other services. Audience Our microservices tutorial is designed for Software Professionals and beginners who want to learn microservices architecture in easy steps. This tutorial will give you an in-depth knowledge of microservices architecture and its components like RabbitMQ Server, Eureka Naming Server, Zuul API Gateway, Ribbon, Hystrix, and Zipkin Server. After completing this tutorial, you can develop microservices services with Spring Cloud. Prerequisites Before continuing with this tutorial, you should have a basic understanding of Java, Spring, and Spring Cloud Framework. Because we are going to develop microservices using Spring Cloud. Problem We assure you that you will not find any problem with the microservices tutorial. If there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. Next TopicAdvantages and Disadvantages of Microservices next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
