https://www.tutorialspoint.com/operating_system/index.htm
Operating System Tutorial - Tutorialspoint
Operating System Tutorial - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks Operating System Tutorial OS - Home OS - Overview OS - Types OS - Services OS - Properties OS - Processes OS - Process Scheduling OS - Scheduling algorithms OS - Multi-threading OS - Memory Management OS - Virtual Memory OS - I/O Hardware OS - I/O Software OS - File System OS - Security OS - Linux OS - Exams Questions with Answers OS - Exams Questions with Answers Operating System Useful Resources OS - Quick Guide OS - Useful Resources OS - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Operating System Tutorial PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion An operating system (OS) is a collection of software that manages computer hardware resources and provides common services for computer programs. The operating system is a vital component of the system software in a computer system. This tutorial will take you through step by step approach while learning Operating System concepts. Why to Learn Operating System? An Operating System (OS) is an interface between a computer user and computer hardware. An operating system is a software which performs all the basic tasks like file management, memory management, process management, handling input and output, and controlling peripheral devices such as disk drives and printers. Some popular Operating Systems include Linux Operating System, Windows Operating System, VMS, OS/400, AIX, z/OS, etc. Following are some of important functions of an operating System. Memory Management Processor Management Device Management File Management Security Control over system performance Job accounting Error detecting aids Coordination between other software and users Applications of Operating System Following are some of the important activities that an Operating System performs ? Security ? By means of password and similar other techniques, it prevents unauthorized access to programs and data. Control over system performance ? Recording delays between request for a service and response from the system. Job accounting ? Keeping track of time and resources used by various jobs and users. Error detecting aids ? Production of dumps, traces, error messages, and other debugging and error detecting aids. Coordination between other softwares and users ? Coordination and assignment of compilers, interpreters, assemblers and other software to the various users of the computer systems. Audience This tutorial has been prepared for the computer science graduates to help them understand the basic to advanced concepts related to Operating System. Prerequisites Before you start proceeding with this tutorial, we are making an assumption that you are already aware of basic computer concepts like what is keyboard, mouse, monitor, input, output, primary memory and secondary memory etc. If you are not well aware of these concepts, then we will suggest to go through our short tutorial on Computer Fundamentals. Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
