https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-use-ms-excel
How to use MS Excel - javatpoint
How to use MS Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to use MS Excel? MS Excel is a software application offered by Microsoft to store the data in digital form. Excel seems to be good and easy to store the data and perform manipulation operations on that data as well. Excel provides sheets having with rows and columns. Note: There are 1,048,576 total number of rows and 16,384 columns in an Excel sheet. Excel allows its users to perform unlimited operations on data. Even you can store your data on the cloud (OneNote, Microsoft backup store), so you will never face the data loss problem. It is simple to use but no as like as tally. This chapter will guide you on basic and some advanced use of Excel. How can a beginner use MS Excel to store and manipulate data using some basic operations? We have created a complete tutorial of MS Excel with detailed steps. So, you can also follow it (https://www.javatpoint.com/excel-tutorial) to learn Excel in deep. Why MS Excel used for? It is important to know that why MS Excel is used for. So, MS Excel is a software tool used for storing and organizing the data in a computer system. It provides a platform to keep the data and records digitally. It is not just that; it also allows its users to perform various mathematical and manipulation operations over the data. You can also keep your data online by logging in to your Microsoft account and take the backup of your files here. Therefore, you can access them anytime and anywhere. So, your data will always be available. It provides complete Benefits of using MS Excel MS Excel offers many advantages of using it. Using MS Excel, you completely change your way of storing data. MS Excel converts the manual book entries into digital form. MS Excel saves the time of users to search the data and any record. If you take the backup of your Excel sheets on the cloud. You can access them anytime and anywhere using your Microsoft account. Excel provides access to its users all over the world. It is faster than the manual book entries that take a lot of time of users in searching and storing the data. You can keep your file data secure and protect your data by locking the file with a password. So, no one can access the file without your permission or password. It provides easy to use formula-based interface, so if you do not remember the formula, you can directly use them from its interface. Levels of MS Excel users Usually, MS Excel users are categories into three types: MS Excel beginner MS Excel Intermediate MS Excel Expert These are three levels of MS Excel users, which are decided based on the user's knowledge and expertise in Excel application. What do you learn? In this chapter, you will learn the basics of Excel, such as creating an Excel file, storing data, saving data, performing basic mathematical operations (sum, avg, min, max, and count), and many other tasks that a beginner usually needs. If you are a beginner, you will find that we have discussed every single step from scratch. Therefore, you will not face any problems while using Excel, even for the first time. For detailed learning, follow our complete Excel tutorial. In this chapter, you will learn - Create and Save Excel file Perform Mathematical operations Most used Excel shortcut keys Add or Delete a column Sort the Excel table data Search the Excel application in your computer system and open it. Currently, it is a blank Excel sheet containing no data in it. We will create a list of some data like products, their price, and quantity of purchase. We will also provide some data in it and show you the basic mathematical operations on it. Shortcut Keys Every time for each task, if you use the mouse, it takes time. So, here we have some shortcut keys that make the work easy and fast for the users. Tab - Use the tab key to move to the next cell in Excel. Ctrl + A - Select the entire data of an Excel sheet using this shortcut key. Ctrl + C - Use this shortcut key to copy the data of cells. Ctrl + X - Cut the data of cells. Ctrl + P - Paste the cut data of the cells using this shortcut key. Ctrl + Z - Usually know as Undo key to take the action back performed in Excel sheet. Ctrl + Y - Usually know as Redo key to take action forward performed in Excel sheet. Ctrl + B - Select the text and use this shortcut key to make the selected text bold. Create an Excel sheet First of all, we will create an Excel sheet containing products name, their price list, and quantity. For this, you have just to open the Excel sheet and enter the data in it. Note: Select heading data and press the Ctrl + B key to bold the heading data. In each column of first row of the Excel sheet, we have provided the heading to the table and in below rows, we will enter data accordingly. Now, press Ctrl + S shortcut key to save the file in your computer system. It will take you to the Save As page. Here, you can browse the folder in your computer system where you would like to save your created Excel sheet. Click on the Browse button here and search the folder. We have saved this file named purchase.xlsx in the Documents folder (default folder chosen by Excel). Perform Multiplication operation Now, we will show how one can perform multiplication operations on Excel data. We will multiply the per product price with purchase quantity and get the total price of purchased products. In Excel, the PRODUCT() function is used to get the multiplication of the cells. You can either manually type this function and provide parameter details if you are familiar the Excel formulas. Otherwise, select the cells, use this function and get the result automatically for ease of use. Follow the steps below for this: 1. Go to the cell where you want to keep the calculated multiplication result. 2. Navigate to the Formula bar tab in the Excel menu bar. Here, in the Function Library section, you will find a Math & Triangle dropdown list that contains all the required mathematical formulas. 3. Click on this Math & Triangle dropdown list, scroll down and choose the Product from the list for multiplication. 4. A dialogue box will open by selecting their corresponding numeric cell number. If it is correct, press the Enter key. 5. The product of the selected cells will be pasted after calculating in the selected cell. You can get this in the below screenshot. 6. Similarly, you can perform the same product operations with other rows data. You can see that we have calculated product for all rows and paste the result in their corresponding cells. In addition, you will get so many other in-built functions in the function library, such as Date & Time, Mathematical, Logical, Financial, recently used function list, and many more. In addition, Excel will also provide the string functions that can be applied to a text string. Calculate sum of column In Excel SUM() function is used to get the total of the cells/column data. You can either manually type this function and provide parameter details if you are familiar with these Excel formulas. Otherwise, select the cells, use this function and get the result calculated automatically for ease of use. Now, we will show you how and where you can perform SUM operation on a column using the sum() function. To calculate the total of a column, we will use the in-built sum() function of Excel and get the total of that column. With the help of an example, we will describe each step in detail. Follow the steps below: 1. First of all, open your Excel worksheet, and select the last empty cell of the column for which column you would like to calculate the total sum. This cell will keep the calculated sum result. 2. Navigate to the Formula bar tab in the Excel menu bar, where you will get an AutoSum Note: This AutoSum list contains the most used Math formulas in Excel. You can also customize this list according to your usage. 3. Click on this AutoSum dropdown button and choose Sum function from this list. The sum of the respective column will be calculated and paste into the selected cell. 4. It will automatically add up all the respective cells in that column, shown in the below screenshot. Press the Enter key to get the total sum for the selected cell values. Although, you can also specify the range. 5. The sum is calculated successfully for the Total price column. See the screenshot below: By following the same steps, you can find the total sum of other columns. Add or Delete a column to an Excel sheet Excel allows its users to add and remove a column from the Excel sheet. Sometimes, there is a need to insert a column between the two columns to add up some more data. In this scenario, Excel allows the insertion of a new column into the Excel sheet. It also does not affect the other data of the Excel table. Add a new column to Excel 1. Open the Excel sheet and select the column before which you would like to insert a new column. For example, column B. 2. Keep the mouse over the selected column and right-click the mouse. A menu list will open where choose Insert from here to add a new column before the selected column. 3. A new column will be added to the Excel sheet just before the selected column. Other columns have been shifted to the right in the Excel sheet. We have given it a name to the newly inserted column, i.e., Type. Delete an existing column from Excel Now, we will delete this Type column and show you the steps for this. 1. Open the Excel sheet and select the column which you would like to delete, i.e., Type (column B). 2. Keep the mouse over the selected column and right-click the mouse. A menu list will open where choose Delete from here to add a new column before the selected column. 3. You can see that the Type column has been deleted successfully, and other columns present at the right have been shifted to the left. Sort the Excel table data Excel provides Sort() function to rearrange the table data in order. It sorts the stored data. So, it becomes easy to find any record in arranged Excel sheet. The sort() function allows the users to sort the data alphabetical, numeric, or date wise. Steps to sort the data Here, we will sort the entire table data by following few simple steps and rearrange the data. Step 1: Open your existing Excel sheet whose data you want to sort. Here, we will sort the data by taking price as a sorting parameter. Step 2: Select all data of the sheet to sort the entire Excel sheet using one column value. It means that when a column values sort, its associated column data will also be sorted. Step 3: Now, navigate to the Data tab in the Excel menu bar, where you will get a Sort function option in Sort & Filter group. Click on this Sort option that will open a popup dialogue box. Step 4: In this dialogue box, select a column from the list on the basis of which you want to sort the data. We will choose the total price. Step 5: Specify the order of sorting either smallest to Largest or Largest to Lowest and click on the OK button. Step 6: See that the entire table data has been sorted successfully according to your Price column, and its associated data also has been sorted. Similarly, data can be sorted based on another column parameter. These all are some basic operations that can be needed at the beginner level. For deep knowledge, follow our complete tutorial (https://www.javatpoint.com/excel-tutorial). Next TopicHow to sort in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
