https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-convert-bytes-to-string-in-python
How to convert Bytes to string in Python - Javatpoint
How to convert Bytes to string in Python - Javatpoint ? Home Python If Else For Loop Function Array String Regex List Set Tuple Dictionary Lambda Function Modules Programs Tkinter Numpy Interview Questions Python Tutorial Python Tutorial Python Features Python History Python Applications Python Install Python Example Python Variables Python Data Types Python Keywords Python Literals Python Operators Python Comments Python If else Python Loops Python For Loop Python While Loop Python Break Python Continue Python Pass Python Strings Python Lists Python Tuples Python List Vs Tuple Python Sets Python Dictionary Python Functions Python Built-in Functions Python Lambda Functions Python Files I/O Python Modules Python Exceptions Python Date Python Regex Python Sending Email Read CSV File Write CSV File Read Excel File Write Excel File Python Assert Python List Comprehension Python Collection Module Python Math Module Python OS Module Python Random Module Python Statistics Module Python Sys Module Python IDEs Python Arrays Command Line Arguments Python Magic Method Python Stack & Queue PySpark MLlib Python Decorator Python Generators Web Scraping Using Python Python JSON Python Itertools Python Multiprocessing Python OOPs Python OOPs Concepts Python Object Class Python Constructors Python Inheritance Abstraction in Python Python MySQL Environment Setup Database Connection Creating New Database Creating Tables Insert Operation Read Operation Update Operation Join Operation Performing Transactions Python MongoDB Python MongoDB Python SQLite Python SQLite Python Questions How to install Python in Windows How to reverse a string in Python How to read CSV file in Python How to run Python Program How to take input in Python How to convert list to string in Python How to append element in the list How to compare two lists in Python How to convert int to string in Python How to create a dictionary in Python How to create a virtual environment in Python How to declare a variable in Python How to install matplotlib in Python How to install OpenCV in Python How to print in same line in Python How to read JSON file in Python How to read a text file in Python How to use for loop in Python Is Python scripting language How long does it take to learn Python How to concatenate two strings in Python How to connect Database in Python How to convert list to dictionary in Python How to declare a global variable in Python How to reverse a number in Python What is an object in Python Which is the fastest implementation of Python How to clear Python shell How to create a DataFrames in Python How to develop a game in Python How to install Tkinter in Python How to plot a graph in Python How to print pattern in Python How to remove an element from a list in Python How to Round number in Python How to sort a dictionary in Python Strong Number in Python How to Convert Text to Speech in Python Bubble Sort in Python Logging in Python Insertion Sort in Python Binary Search in Python Linear Search in Python Python vs Scala Queue in Python Stack in Python Heap Sort in Python Palindrome program in python Program of Cumulative sum in python Merge Sort in Python Python Matrix Python Unit Testing Forensics & Virtualization Best Books to Learn Python Best Books to Learn Django GCD of two number in python Python Program to generate a Random String How to One Hot Encode Sequence Data in Python How to write square root in Python Pointer in Python Python 2D array Python Memory Management Python Libraries for Data Visualization How to call a function in Python Git Modules in Python Top Python Frameworks for Gaming Python Audio Modules Wikipedia Module in Python Python random randrange() Permutation and Combination in Python Getopt module in Python Merge two Dictionaries in Python Multithreading in Python 3 Static in Python How to get the current date in Python argparse in Python Python tqdm Module Caesar Cipher in Python Tokenizer in Python How to add two lists in Python Shallow Copy and Deep Copy in Python Atom Python Contains in Python Label Encoding in Python Django vs. Node JS Python Frameworks How to create a vector in Python using NumPy Pickle Module of Python How to convert Bytes to string in Python Python Program to Find Anagram How to convert List to Set Python vs JavaScript Python Holidays Module FuzzyWuzzy Python Library Dask Python Python Tkinter (GUI) Python Tkinter Tkinter Button Tkinter Canvas Tkinter Checkbutton Tkinter Entry Tkinter Frame Tkinter Label Tkinter Listbox Tkinter Menubutton Tkinter Menu Tkinter Message Tkinter Radiobutton Tkinter Scale Tkinter Scrollbar Tkinter Text Tkinter Toplevel Tkinter Spinbox Tkinter PanedWindow Tkinter LabelFrame Tkinter MessageBox Python Web Blocker Introduction Building Python Script Script Deployment on Linux Script Deployment on Windows Python MCQ Python MCQ Related Tutorials NumPy Tutorial Django Tutorial Flask Tutorial Pandas Tutorial Pytorch Tutorial Pygame Tutorial Matplotlib Tutorial OpenCV Tutorial Openpyxl Tutorial Python CGI Python Design Pattern Python Programs Python Programs next ? ? prev How to convert Bytes to string in Python In this tutorial, we will learn how we can convert Bytes to a String using Python script. We will also explore how to use these data types efficiently. We include Python 3 approaches in this tutorial because Python 2 is no longer in use. Before digging deep into this topic, first, we need to understand the basic introduction of Byte data type. Byte Data Type in Python If one is familiar with the Python, then he/she must already know about the byte data type. But if someone is no friendly with Python, then we will explain this concept. Let's understand the following example. Example - 
string1 = 'Welcome to JavaTpoint'
print(type(string1))
string2 = b'Welcome to JavaTpoint'
print(type(string2))
 Output: 
<class 'str'>
<class 'bytes'>
 Explanation We define two strings with the same value. Both values are looking similar, but the data types are not same. The first string1 variable is a string data type, and the other is a byte data type. The second string2 variable is prefixed with 'b,' which means it produces the byte data type instead of the str data type. The difference between these two data types is Str - A string is a sequence of Unicode characters (encoded in UTF -16 or UTF-32 and entirely depends on Python's compilation). Bytes or byte - It represents an integer between 0 and 255, and we can denote it as 'b' or 'B.' We can convert any string to bytes by writing 'be literal in front of a regular string. Note - Python 2.x ignores the prefix 'b' or 'B.' Key Difference between String and Bytes Both str and bytes data types are used as Byte type objects in Python 2.x, but it is not true in the case of Python 3.x. The critical difference between bytes and string is that strings are easy to read or human-readable where a byte is eventually machine-readable, and the string is also converted into byte before processing. When we declare a byte data type in Python, it is directly stored in the disk and a string is converted into a byte and then stored on disk. Strings are used to signify the characters, words, or sentences, whereas Bytes represent low-level binary data structures. Convert Bytes to String in Python Using the decode() method Python provides the built-in decode() method, which is used to convert bytes to a string. Let's understand the following example. Example - 
byteData = b"Lets eat a \xf0\x9f\x8d\x95!"
# Let's check the type
print(type(byteData))
str1 = byteData.decode('UTF-8')
print(type(str1))
print(str1)
 Output: 
<class 'bytes'>
<class 'str'>
Lets eat a ?!
 Explanation - We passed the encoding format in the above code, decoded the bytes object into a string, and printed it. Using Bytes to String with codecs We can also use the codec module to convert byte data type to string. Example - 
import codecs
byteData = b'Lets eat a \xf0\x9f\x8d\x95!'
codecs.decode(byteData, 'UTF-8')
 Output: 
Lets eat a ?
 Using str() It is the easiest method to convert the bytes to string. Let's understand the following example. Example - 
byteData = b'Lets eat a \xf0\x9f\x8d\x95!'
b1 = str(byteData, 'UTF-8')
print(b1)
 Output: 
Lets eat a ?&!
 It is necessary to pass the encoding argument to str() otherwise, we will get some unexpected results. Wrong encoding leads to incorrect output. For example - If we pass the str() method with UTF-16, we will get the following error. 
str(b, 'UTF-16') 
 Output: 
'??\u2073???\uf020??'
 Conclusion This tutorial will help you to work with the byte data type. Thinks like charsets, encoding, and binary are used to encode and decode. We have defined the various methods to convert byte data type to string. Next TopicPython Program to Find Anagram ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
