https://www.javatpoint.com/class-12-physics-mcq
Class 12 Physics MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Class 12 Physics MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Class 12 Physics MCQ 1) A system containing two equal and opposite charges separated by a finite distance is called as: Electric flux Electric dipole Electric field None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Electric dipole Explanation: The dipole moment has two charges with the separation distance between them. The two charges are +q and -q, while the separation distance is 2l. It means that the net charge on an electric dipole is 0. 2) Which of the following statements about the electric field lines is incorrect? Electrostatic field lines cannot intersect. Electrostatic field lines cannot form closed loops. Electrostatic field lines must be normal to the surface of the conductor. Electrostatic field lines cannot originate from the positive charge. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Electrostatic field lines cannot originate from the positive charge. Explanation: Electrostatic field lines can originate only from the positive charge and terminates at the negative charge. It cannot originate from the negative charge. 3) Which of the following physical quantity has S.I. unit J/C? Electric flux Dipole moment Electric Potential Electric field intensity Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Electric potential Explanation: Electric potential is a scalar quantity, which is calculated as: Electric potential = Work done/Charge The unit of work done is Joule, and the charge of a conductor is Coulomb. Thus, the S.I. unit of the electric potential is: Joule/Coulomb = J/C. 4) Find the charge and voltage across the capacitor C4 of the given below capacitance network. 150V 200V 160V 60V Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 150V Explanation: Here, we will first solve the capacitance network to find the network's equivalence capacitance. Step 1: The two capacitors are connected in series. After solving, we get: C = 1/200 + 1/200 = 100pF Step 2: The two capacitors of 100pF are now in parallel. The equivalent capacitance will be 200pF. Step 3: The two capacitors are now in series. After solving we get: C = 1/200 + 1/200 = 100pF The equivalent circuit appears as: Ceq = 100pF Q = Ceq x V Q=100×10-12×300=3×10-8 C4 = Q/C4 C4 = 150V 5) The flux of the electrostatic field through the closed spherical surface is found to be four times that through the closed spherical surface S. Find the magnitude of the charge Q. The three charges are q1 = 1Uc, q2 = -4uC, q3 = 8.84uC. 5.84uC 31.32uC 17.52uC 38.52uC Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) 17.52uC Explanation: Consider the below figure: The flux through S' = 4 x flux through S By Gauss theorem, Net flux through the surface is equal to: Flux through S' is equal to: Flux through S is equal to: Equating both equations, we get: The value of charge Q is: = 3 (1 - 4 +8.84) = 17.52 6) What is the effect on the capacitance of a conductor when an earthed conductor is brought near it? Decreases Increases No effect Always decrease Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Increases Explanation: The earth conductor has low electric potential due to its connection to the earth. It increases the capacitance of the conductor. 7) The fuse in electrical circuits has: Low resistivity, high melting point High resistivity, low melting point Low resistivity, low melting point High resistivity, high melting point Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) High resistivity, low melting point Explanation: During the high current, the fuse melts and breaks the circuit. It prevents the circuit from any damage. Thus, the fuse has a low melting point and high resistivity. 8) The Internal resistance of a cell depends on which of the following factors: Area of immersed part of electrodes Separation between electrodes Nature and concentration of an electrolyte None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) None of the above Explanation: Internal resistance of the cell is defined as the hindrance offered by the electrolyte of the cell to the flow of current. It depends on the area of the immersed part of the electrodes in the electrolyte solution, nature, and concentration of the electrolyte. It also depends on the distance between the two electrodes (anode and cathode) of a cell. 9) The path of electrons in the presence of an electric field is: Straight Curved Zigzag None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Curved Explanation: The path of the electrons in the presence of an electric field is curved. But, in the absence of the electric field, the path of electrons is straight. 10) What is the resistance and tolerance value of a resistor with four colors red, orange, green, and silver marked on the it? 2.3M?±10% 2.3K?±10% 3.2M?±5% 3.2M?±10% Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 2.3M?±10% Explanation: The above resistor has four color bands. The fourth color band is used to find the tolerance. The table is shown below: Color Name Color Digit Multiplier Tolerance Black 0 1 - Brown 1 10 ±1% Red 2 100 ±2% Orange 3 1000 - Yellow 4 10000 - Green 5 100000 ±0.5% Blue 6 1000000 ±0.25% Violet 7 10000000 ±0.1% Grey 8 100000000 ±0.05% White 9 1000000000 - Gold N/A 0.1 ±5% Silver N/A 0.01 ±10% The corresponding digits for the first three colors are 2, 3, and 5. The fourth digit corresponds to the tolerance of 10%. The format to find the resistance value is: ab×Multiplier ±Tolerance Where, a, b, and n are the digits of the first three colors. a = 2, b = 3, and n = 5 The resistance value of the given resistor is: =2.3M? The resistance value with the tolerance can be written as: =2.3M?±10% 11) Three resistors of 2 Ohms, 3 Ohms, and 5 Ohms are connected in series with a 12V battery with no internal resistance. Find the total resistance of the combination and the potential difference across the resistor of 5 Ohms. 10 Ohms, 5V 10 Ohms, 3V 10 Ohms, 1.2V 10 Ohms, 6V Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 10 Ohms, 6V Explanation: In series combination, the resistance can be calculated as: R = 2 + 3 + 5 = 10 Ohms We know that the voltage is 12V. The current can be calculated as I = V/R I = 12/10 = 1.2V The potential difference across the resistor of 5 Ohms is: V = IR3 = 1.2 x 5 = 6V 12) The charge carriers in a germanium semiconductor are: Electrons Holes Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Both (a) and (b) Explanation: A semiconductor consists of both positive charge carriers known as holes and negative charge carriers electrons. Both these charge carriers are responsible for the current generation in a semiconductor. 13) The ability of a material to allow the flow of magnetic lines of force through it is known as: Magnetic susceptibility Magnetic intensity Magnetizing field Magnetic permeability Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Magnetic susceptibility Explanation: Magnetic susceptibility is defined as a substance's ability to permit the passage of magnetic field lines through it. 14) Which of the following statement about the magnetic field lines is incorrect? Magnetic field lines never intersect. Magnetic field lines never emerge from a point. Magnetic field lines are completely straight. Magnetic field lines can meet to form closed loops. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Magnetic field lines are completely straight Explanation: Magnetic field lines can be curved but not straight. 15) The appropriate bandwidth used in telephonic communication is: 3000Hz 2800Hz 3100Hz None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 2800Hz Explanation: The frequency range for speech signals lies between 300Hz and 3100Hz. Thus, the bandwidth of the speech signal or the telephonic communication can be calculated as: 3100Hz - 300Hz = 2800Hz 16) The electromagnetic waves can be transmitted through which of the following processes? Space wave propagation Ground wave propagation Sky wave propagation All of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) All of the above Explanation: The electromagnetic waves through space can be transmitted using antennas and satellites. The three processes used for such transmission are space wave propagation, ground wave, and sky wave propagation. 17) Which one of the following is not a purpose of modulating a signal in transmission? Avoid mixing up of signals. Increase the size of the antenna. Reduce the size of the antenna. Reduce larger bandwidth. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Increase the size of the antenna. Explanation: The purpose of modulating a signal is to reduce the size of antenna. The reduced antenna size will improve its efficiency. It will also reduce the cost of the antenna. 18) The length of the dipole antenna for a carrier wave of the frequency of 6 x 10^8 Hz is: 0.25m 0.125m 0.5m 0.1025m Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 0.125 Explanation: The length of the dipole antenna is: = ¼ (c/v) =¼ (3 x 10^8)/ 6 x 10^8) c is the speed of light, which is equal to 3 x 10^8 m/s. v is the carrier wave frequency, which is given as 6 x 10^8 Hz. = ¼(1/2) = 1/8 =0.125m 19) Which of the following statement about Amplitude modulation is incorrect? It is noisy. It is expensive. It cannot be used for high-frequency carrier waves. Its production and reception are convenient. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) It is expensive Explanation: Amplitude modulation is cheaper because it is simple to manufacture. 20) Acceptor level in the p-type semiconductor lies in: The top of the valence band Bottom of the conduction band Top of the conduction band None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) the top of the valence band Explanation: The majority of carriers in the p-type semiconductor are holes. It means that the p-type semiconductor is deficient in electrons. The movement of electrons is from one hole to another. Hence, the acceptor level lies on the top of the valence band. 21) Which of the following statement about LED (Light Emitting diode) is correct? Fast action Low operational voltage Short life span Both (a) and (b) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Both (a) and (b) Explanation: The Light Emitting diodes have low operational voltage, fast action, and longer life as compared to other light sources. 22) The device used in satellites to recharge their batteries is: Photodiode Solar cell LED Zener diode Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Solar cell Explanation: The solar cell uses sunlight as the incident energy and gives rise to the photocurrent, which is used to recharge the batteries in satellites. 23) Two amplifiers are connected in series, one after the other. The voltage gain of both the amplifiers is 10 and 20. Calculate the output signal if the input signal is 0.01V? 2V 3V 1.5V 0.5V Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 2V Explanation: Av = A1 x A2 = 10 x 20 = 200 Voltage gain = Output voltage/ Input signal voltage Av = Vo/Vi Vo = Av x Vi Vo = 200 x 0.01 Vo = 2V Thus, the output voltage is 2V. 24) The circuit shows the two inputs A and B inverted using the two NOT gates. Their output is again fed to the NOR gate. Find the output and identify the logic gate of the complete circuit? NAND NOR OR AND Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) AND Explanation: Let consider the output of the two gates be Y1 and Y2. We can write it as: The output of the two gates is again fed to the NOR gate. Let the output of the NOR gate be Y. Y = (Y1 + Y2)' We can write it as: Hence, the logic gate output of the complete circuit is AND gate. 25) Rutherford's model was unable to explain: Neutrality of an atom Photoelectric effect Stability of an atom Thermionic emissions Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Stability of an atom Explanation: Rutherford model was unable to explain the stability of an atom. 26) Balmer series of the hydrogen emission spectrum lies in which region? Ultraviolet region Visible region Far infrared region None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) visible region Explanation: The short and longer wavelength of the Balmer series lies in the range of the visible region. 27) Which of the following statement about the Gamma rays is incorrect? Gamma rays travel in a vacuum with the speed of light. Gamma rays have the least penetration power. Gamma rays have the least ionizing power. Gamma rays are neutral. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Gamma rays have the least penetration power. Explanation: Gamma rays have the highest penetration power. It is because these rays do not possess any electric charge. The interaction of the gamma rays with the matter is not strong enough as compared to the charged particles. Hence, it has the highest penetration power. 28) What is the ratio of the radii of the two nuclei with the mass number 1 and 64? 1/4 1/64 1/16 1 /2 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 1/4 Explanation: Let the two radii be R1 and R2. We know, R1/R2 = (A1/A2)^(1/3) Where, A1 and A2 are the mass number of the two nuclei. R1/R2 = (1/64)^(1/3) R1/R2 = 1/4 29) What is the impact on the neutron to proton ratio after the emission of the alpha particle? Decreases Constant Increases None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Increases Explanation: After the emission, alpha particles pick up the electrons from the atoms. The emission also increases the atomic number. Hence, the neutron to proton ratio increases. 30) Heavy metals emit electrons during which incident radiations? Visible light Ultraviolet light Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Ultraviolet radiations Explanation: Ultraviolet radiations are high-frequency radiations. The electrons are emitted when the U.V. radiations fall on the surface of the metal. Visible light is suitable for alkali metals or sensitive metals. 31) What is the impact on the stopping potential with the increase of frequency? Decreases No impact Increases None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Increases Explanation: The increase of frequency results in the rise of the maximum kinetic energy of the photoelectrons. It causes an increase in the stopping potential. 32) What is the stopping potential applied to a photocell if the maximum kinetic energy of a photoelectron is 6eV? 10V 2V 4V 5V Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 5V Explanation: The stooping potential can be calculated as: Ek = eVo = eVo = Vo = 5V 33) The red light cannot produce the electrons from a clean zinc metal surface because: The energy of a photon of red light is equal to the work function of the zinc. The energy of a photon of red light is greater than the work function of the zinc. The energy of a photon of red light is less than the work function of the zinc. None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Energy of photon of red light is less the work function of the zinc. Explanation: The electrons are ejected from the metal surface if the incident light frequency is greater or equal to the threshold frequency. We can also say that the incident light's energy should be greater than the metal's work function. Red light has low energy and low frequency. Hence, it cannot produce electrons from a clean zinc metal surface. 34) The electromagnetic spectrum with the wavelength of 0.1m or 10cm is: Visible light Shot radio waves Microwaves Gamma rays Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Short radio waves Explanation: The range of the wavelength of the radio waves lies between 0.1m and 0.0001m. Hence, the electromagnetic spectrum with a wavelength of 0.1m is short radio waves. 35) Which among the following visible spectrum has the frequency of 620nm? Blue Orange Blue Indigo Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Orange Explanation: The approximate range of orange color of the visible spectrum has a wavelength between 600nm and 650 nm. Hence, the wavelength of 620nm lies in the visible orange spectrum. 36) The origin of the displacement current: Arises due to the time variation of electric flux Arises due to motion of charge carriers Both (a) and (b) None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) arises due to the time variation of electric flux Explanation: The current flows due to the flow of electrons. The direction of the current is opposite to the flow of electrons. We can also say that the current direction is in the same direction as the flow of holes. The displacement current also exists when electrons flow at a uniform rate. It depends on the changing electric field. Hence, the origin of the displacement current arises due to the time variation of the electric flux. 37) The substances where the strong magnetism is generated in the same direction of the applied magnetic field are called: Paramagnetic substances Diamagnetic substances Ferromagnetic substances None of the above Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Ferromagnetic substances Explanation: The ferromagnetic substances are strongly attracted to the magnet. Hence, the direction of such substances' magnetism is in the same direction of the applied magnetic field. 38) A Galvanometer with a resistance G has the maximum safe potential difference, Vo. What resistance can be connected in series so that the Galvanometer may become a voltmeter of range nVo volts? nG (n - 1)G (n + 1)G nG/2 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) (n - 1)G Explanation: The current across the Galvanometer can be calculated as: Ig = Vo/G Where, V = nVo From the given relation, we can write the above equation as: Ig = Vo/(R + G) Vo/G = nVo(R + G) R + G = nG R = nG - G R = G(n - 1) 39) The losses occurring in the core of the transformer that produces sound and vibrations is known as: Humming losses Hysteresis losses Iron losses Copper losses Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Humming losses Explanation: When the alternating current flows across the transformer's core, it starts producing humming sounds and vibrations. Such losses are termed humming losses. 40) What will be the change in the self-inductance of a coil if the number of turns in a solenoid is doubled? 2-times 4-times 8-times No effect Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) 4- times Explanation: Self-inductance of a solenoid is directly proportional to the square of the number of turns. Hence, if the number of turns in a solenoid is doubled, the self-inductance will be changed by 4 -times. 41) The phase difference between the voltages across the inductance and a capacitor in an alternating circuit is: 90 degrees 270 degrees 0 degrees 180 degrees Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 180 degrees Explanation: The phase difference between the voltage across the inductance and a capacitor is 180 degrees. 42) The transformer is used to: Step up the ac voltage Step up the dc voltage Step down the ac voltage Both (a) and (c) Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) Both (a) and (c) Explanation: The transformer is only used to step up or step down the ac voltage. It cannot step up or step down the dc voltage. If the dc voltage is applied to the primary coil of a transformer, the current will remain same. It may produce no change in magnetic flux. It may produce no output current. 43) A 30W load is connected to the secondary winding of the transformer. The primary winding draws line current. If the current of 0.64 Amperes flows across the load, what is the current in the primary of the transformer? 0.32A 0.64A 4.7A 1.28A Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) 0.32A Explanation: Given: Power across the load PL = 30W, and IL = 0.64A VL = PL/IL = 30/0.64 = 47V The transformer given is a step-down. Hence, it has ½ input voltage. Thus, the current across the primary winding Ip can be calculated as: Ip = ½ IL Ip = ½ 0.64 = 0.32A 44) An instrument that comprises of only a single convex lens is: Refracting telescope Compound telescope Simple telescope Reflecting telescope Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Simple telescope Explanation: The simple telescope comprises a single convex lens. The compound and refracting telescope include two co-axial convex lenses. While reflecting the telescope, a concave mirror is used. 45) Which of the following is not a use of the Polaroid? Polaroid sheets present in sunglasses protect our eyes from the glass. Polaroid is used in 3D pictures. Partially polarized light beams show no variation in intensity. It is used in the analysis of the given light beam. Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) Partially polarized light beams show no variation in intensity. Explanation: The light beams that show no light intensity variations are known as unpolarized light beams. 46) The speed of sound in the medium depends on: Wavelength Nature Direction of propagation intensity Show Answer Workspace Answer: (a) Wavelength Explanation: Speed of sound depends directly on the wavelength. It is independent of other factors, such as nature, the direction of propagation, and intensity. 47) Which light is deviated more by a prism? Red Blue Orange yellow Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) Blue Explanation: Blue deviates more than red, orange, and yellow. It is because the refractive index of blue is greater than these three colors. We can also say that the refractive index is inversely proportional to the wavelength. For example, violet has the shortest wavelength. Thus, it has the highest refractive index. 48) What is the refractive index of the medium with a polarizing angle of 60 degrees? 0.333 0.577 0.866 1.732 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (d) 1.732 Explanation: The refractive index of a medium can be calculated as: n = tan ip Where, ip is the polarizing angle n = tan 60 = 1.732 49) What is the focal length of the combination of the convex lens and the concave lens? The focal length of convex and the concave lens in contact is 30cm and 20cm, respectively. -50cm -60cm 10cm 60cm Show Answer Workspace Answer: (b) -60cm Explanation: Let the focal length of the convex and the concave lens be F1 and F2. F1 = 30cm F2 = -20cm The focal length F of the combination can be calculated as: F = 1/F1 + 1 /F2 F = 1/30 + 1/(-20) F = F1.F2/ (F1 + F2) F = 30.(-20) / (30 - 20) F = -600 / 10 = -60cm 50) What is the magnifying power of a small telescope that has an objective focal length of 144cm. The eye piece has the the focal length of 6.0cm. -150 24 -24 138 Show Answer Workspace Answer: (c) -24 Explanation: The magnifying power can be calculated as: M = - fo / fe Where, fo and fe are the focal lengths of the objective lens and eye piece. M = - 144/6.0 = -24 Next TopicInline Block Elements ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
