https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/school-programming/
School Programming Archives - GeeksforGeeks
School Programming Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Category Archives: School Programming Check if two vectors are collinear or not Given six integers representing the x, y, and z coordinates of two vectors, the task is to check if the two given vectors are collinear… Read More Geometric-Lines Mathematical School Programming Program to find the Magnitude of a Vector Basic Given three integers representing the X, Y, and Z coordinates of a 3-D vector, the task is to find the magnitude of that vector. Example:… Read More Mathematical School Programming Program to calculate Kinetic Energy and Potential Energy Basic Given three integers M, H, and V representing the mass, velocity, and height of an object respectively the task is to calculate its Kinetic Energy… Read More Mathematical School Programming Number of common digits present in two given numbers Medium Given two positive numbers N and M, the task is to count the number of digits which are present in both N and M. Examples:… Read More frequency-counting number-digits Hash School Programming Searching Class 12 NCERT Solutions – Mathematics Part I – Chapter 5 Continuity And Differentiability – Exercise 5.5 | Set 2 Question 11. Differentiate the function with respect to x. (x cos x)x + (x sin x)1/x Solution: Given: (x cos x)x + (x sin x)1/x… Read More NCERT Solutions Class-12 Class 12 NCERT School Learning School Programming Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 19 Indefinite Integrals – Exercise 19.3 | Set 1 Question 1. Integrate ?(2x – 3)5 + ?3x + 2 dx Solution: Let I = ?(2x – 3)5 + ?3x + 2 dx … Read More Picked RD Sharma Class-12 Technical Scripter 2020 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions School Learning School Programming Technical Scripter Python program to count Even and Odd numbers in a Dictionary Given a python dictionary, the task si to count even and odd numbers present in the dictionary. Examples: Input : {‘a’: 1, ‘b’: 2, ‘c’:… Read More Python dictionary-programs Mathematical Python Programs School Programming Technical Scripter Check if an area P can be obtained from an area of N * M Given integers N, M and P, the task is to check if is possible to find a rectangular area of P sq. units inside a… Read More area-volume-programs factor Mathematical School Programming Introduction to Scratch Programming Scratch is a block-based visual programming language that can be used to make interactive games and animations. It has a huge online community where you… Read More Scratch-basics School Programming Generations of Computers – Computer Fundamentals The modern computer took its shape with the arrival of your time. It had been around 16th century when the evolution of computer started. The… Read More School Learning School Programming Understanding Windows 10 | Class 5 Windows 10 is the most recent version of the Microsoft Windows operating system. There have been many different versions of Windows over the years, including… Read More School Learning School Programming Program to print ASCII Value of all digits of a given number Given an integer N, the task is to print the ASCII value of all digits of N. Examples: Input: N = 8Output: 8 (56)Explanation:ASCII value… Read More ASCII number-digits Mathematical School Programming How to View Colored Man Pages in Linux? Man pages or simply manual pages are the documentation that is available with every command-line tool or application present to us in a Linux System.… Read More Picked Technical Scripter 2020 Linux-Unix School Programming Technical Scripter TechTips Generate an N-length array having sum of each subarray divisible by K Given two positive integers N and K, the task is to generate an array consisting of N distinct integers such that the sum of elements… Read More series subarray subarray-sum Greedy Mathematical School Programming Minimum days required to cure N persons Given an array arr[], representing the ages of N persons in a hospital and there is only one doctor who can give an immune dose… Read More Arrays Dynamic Programming Mathematical School Programming Technical Scripter Page 1 of 8912345...102030...»Last » What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in School Programming Reverse a string in Java Arrays in C/C++ Inheritance in C++ Python Dictionary Copy Constructor in C++ Most Visited in School Programming Overriding in Java C++ Classes and Objects Constructors in C++ Object Oriented Programming in C++ C++ Data Types 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
