https://www.javatpoint.com/python-frameworks
Top Python Frameworks| Python Framework List - Javatpoint
Top Python Frameworks| Python Framework List - Javatpoint ? Home Python If Else For Loop Function Array String Regex List Set Tuple Dictionary Lambda Function Modules Programs Tkinter Numpy Interview Questions Python Tutorial Python Tutorial Python Features Python History Python Applications Python Install Python Example Python Variables Python Data Types Python Keywords Python Literals Python Operators Python Comments Python If else Python Loops Python For Loop Python While Loop Python Break Python Continue Python Pass Python Strings Python Lists Python Tuples Python List Vs Tuple Python Sets Python Dictionary Python Functions Python Built-in Functions Python Lambda Functions Python Files I/O Python Modules Python Exceptions Python Date Python Regex Python Sending Email Read CSV File Write CSV File Read Excel File Write Excel File Python Assert Python List Comprehension Python Collection Module Python Math Module Python OS Module Python Random Module Python Statistics Module Python Sys Module Python IDEs Python Arrays Command Line Arguments Python Magic Method Python Stack & Queue PySpark MLlib Python Decorator Python Generators Web Scraping Using Python Python JSON Python Itertools Python Multiprocessing Python OOPs Python OOPs Concepts Python Object Class Python Constructors Python Inheritance Abstraction in Python Python MySQL Environment Setup Database Connection Creating New Database Creating Tables Insert Operation Read Operation Update Operation Join Operation Performing Transactions Python MongoDB Python MongoDB Python SQLite Python SQLite Python Questions How to install Python in Windows How to reverse a string in Python How to read CSV file in Python How to run Python Program How to take input in Python How to convert list to string in Python How to append element in the list How to compare two lists in Python How to convert int to string in Python How to create a dictionary in Python How to create a virtual environment in Python How to declare a variable in Python How to install matplotlib in Python How to install OpenCV in Python How to print in same line in Python How to read JSON file in Python How to read a text file in Python How to use for loop in Python Is Python scripting language How long does it take to learn Python How to concatenate two strings in Python How to connect Database in Python How to convert list to dictionary in Python How to declare a global variable in Python How to reverse a number in Python What is an object in Python Which is the fastest implementation of Python How to clear Python shell How to create a DataFrames in Python How to develop a game in Python How to install Tkinter in Python How to plot a graph in Python How to print pattern in Python How to remove an element from a list in Python How to Round number in Python How to sort a dictionary in Python Strong Number in Python How to Convert Text to Speech in Python Bubble Sort in Python Logging in Python Insertion Sort in Python Binary Search in Python Linear Search in Python Python vs Scala Queue in Python Stack in Python Heap Sort in Python Palindrome program in python Program of Cumulative sum in python Merge Sort in Python Python Matrix Python Unit Testing Forensics & Virtualization Best Books to Learn Python Best Books to Learn Django GCD of two number in python Python Program to generate a Random String How to One Hot Encode Sequence Data in Python How to write square root in Python Pointer in Python Python 2D array Python Memory Management Python Libraries for Data Visualization How to call a function in Python Git Modules in Python Top Python Frameworks for Gaming Python Audio Modules Wikipedia Module in Python Python random randrange() Permutation and Combination in Python Getopt module in Python Merge two Dictionaries in Python Multithreading in Python 3 Static in Python How to get the current date in Python argparse in Python Python tqdm Module Caesar Cipher in Python Tokenizer in Python How to add two lists in Python Shallow Copy and Deep Copy in Python Atom Python Contains in Python Label Encoding in Python Django vs. Node JS Python Frameworks How to create a vector in Python using NumPy Pickle Module of Python How to convert Bytes to string in Python Python Program to Find Anagram How to convert List to Set Python vs JavaScript Python Holidays Module FuzzyWuzzy Python Library Dask Python Python Tkinter (GUI) Python Tkinter Tkinter Button Tkinter Canvas Tkinter Checkbutton Tkinter Entry Tkinter Frame Tkinter Label Tkinter Listbox Tkinter Menubutton Tkinter Menu Tkinter Message Tkinter Radiobutton Tkinter Scale Tkinter Scrollbar Tkinter Text Tkinter Toplevel Tkinter Spinbox Tkinter PanedWindow Tkinter LabelFrame Tkinter MessageBox Python Web Blocker Introduction Building Python Script Script Deployment on Linux Script Deployment on Windows Python MCQ Python MCQ Related Tutorials NumPy Tutorial Django Tutorial Flask Tutorial Pandas Tutorial Pytorch Tutorial Pygame Tutorial Matplotlib Tutorial OpenCV Tutorial Openpyxl Tutorial Python CGI Python Design Pattern Python Programs Python Programs next ? ? prev Top Python Frameworks| Python Framework List In this tutorial, we will discuss Python's various important frameworks and their essential features. As we know, Python is a highly demanded and effective programming language, and it contains vast libraries and frameworks which for almost every technical domain. The frameworks provide easiness while developing an application (or software) to developers. They offer automatic implementation of redundant tasks, reduce development time, and focus significantly on application logic rather than a common element. Python comes with many frameworks, and each framework has its advantages and disadvantages. All we need to analyze our project requirements to choose the appropriate frameworks. We will discuss the following Python frameworks. Bottle CherryPy AIOHTTP Dash Falcon Flask Giotto Django Growler Uvloop Sanic MorePath Picnic Pylons Framework Pyramid TurboGears Web2py Hug CubicWeb There are mainly three types of Python frameworks, full-stack, micro-framework, and asynchronous. Before explaining each framework in detail, let's briefly introduce various kinds of Python frameworks. Types of Python Frameworks There are primarily three types of frameworks as follows. 1. Full-Stack framework These frameworks have all web development requirements such as form generators, form validation, and template layouts. These are the core features of a typical full-stack Framework. 2. Microframework Micro frameworks require lots of code and additional requirements manually. This kind of framework doesn't provide the data abstraction layer's facility, form validation, and specific tools and libraries. 3. Asynchronous Framework Asynchronous frameworks are gaining popularity recently allows for handling a large set of concurrent connections. It uses the asyncio library to run the process concurrently. Let's see the following Python frameworks. Best Python Frameworks Below is the list of top Python frameworks. 1. Bottle It is a microframework that creates a single source of file for every developed application using it. This framework primarily focuses on developing APIs, and it is one of the finest Python web-framework. The Bottle doesn't require the other dependencies to create small web applications. It allows the developer to work closely with the hardware, and it is the most suited framework to make small apps and simplistic person-use apps. Key features of Bottle It is a built-in HTTP server. It comes with plugins support for different databases. It offers the request-dispatching route. We can access the 3rd party template engine and WSGI/HTTP servers. 2. CherryPy CherryPy is an open-source, object-oriented micro-framework. It follows the minimalistic approach. This is one of the oldest Python frameworks that were introduced in 2002. We don't need to install the apache server to run cherryPy. This framework allows us to use any technology for data access, templating at Cetera. Key features of CherryPy CherryPy application runs on Android. It has a flexible built-in system. It provides a robust configuration system. It offers inbuilt support for coverage, profiling, and testing. Offers simplicity for running multiple HTTP servers simultaneously. 3. AIOHTTP It is an Asynchronous framework that depends intensely on Python 3.5+ features, such as async & await. The Python asyncio library plays a vital role in the functioning of this framework. Being a server web framework, AIOHTTP can also serve as a client framework. We can redirect the queries using the request object and router. Key features of AIOHTTP It has Pluggable routing. It provides the facility to build the view effectively. Signals. It supports both server WebSockets and client WebSockets without the callback hell. It gives the middleware supports. 4. Dash It is a Python-based micro framework used to develop analytical web applications and popular among data scientists. It is suitable for those data scientists who aren't much into web development mechanics. Dash's application can also run the webserver such as Flask and communication with JSON packets via HTTP requests. ReactJS is used for rendering the frontend. We can extend the capabilities of Dash using Flask plugins. Applications developed using the Dash are rendered in a web browser and can be deployed to the server. These applications are cross-platform and mobile ready. Let's see the key features of the Dash framework. Key features of Dash There is extensive plugin support. It works on URL routine (Dash Development Server). It supports a high degree of customization. It can handle errors effectively. LDAP integration (Dash Development server). Less code needed for creating Dash apps. 5. Falcon It is a micro-framework used for building web APIs, and it is another widely used Python framework. It requires many dependencies for building HTTP APIs and allows the developer to create a cleaner design that permits HTTP and REST architecture. Falcon is widely used in big organizations like LinkedIn, OpenStack, and RackSpace. It can handle more requests with the same hardware than all its contemporaries. This framework focuses on having 100% code coverage. Key features of Falcon Upfront exception handling It can provide extra speed with Cython support. It has a highly-optimized code base and also extensible. Unit testing via WSGI helper and mocks. Its request and responsive classes provide easy access for headers and bodies. Native HTTP error responses. 6. Flask Flask is another popular Python micro-framework that comes under the BSD license. The Sinatra Ruby framework inspires it. This framework requires Jinja2 templates and the Werzeug WSGI toolkit. It is lightweight and has a modular design. Flask is readily adaptable. Using the Flask, developers can build a solid web application foundation from where it is possible to use any extension required. It is also compatible with Google App Engine. Key features of Flask It provides built-in support. It supports jinja2 templating. It has Unicode-based. HTTP request handling. It has a built-in fast debugger. It helps for plugging in any ORM. It supports secure cookies to establish client-side sessions. 7. Giotto It is a full-stack framework based on the Model View Controller (MVC). Giotto is an application framework and separates the Model, View, and controller elements in order. It provides some essential characteristics such as automatic URL routing and Jinja2 for HTML templates with an API and accessible RESTful interface. It also comes with the controller module that offers developers a platform to create apps using the command line and Internet Relay charts (IRC). Key Features of Giotto It has a facility for automatic URL routing. Functional crud patterns. There are multiple pluggable controllers. Generic model and views. Obtainability of Jinja2 for HTML templates. Tremendously succinct code. Database support with SQLAlchemy. 8. Django Django is a full-stack Python framework. It is a most famous and beloved framework for developing rich web applications. It is gaining popularity bypassing the time. It ended up being one of the top 10 web development frameworks in 2021. It focuses on the DRY (Don'tRepeat Yourself) principle. Django offers several built-in libraries and excellent features that are available for free to use. Django makes use of its ORM for mapping objects to database tables. It offers database support as well as provides easiness to migrate from one database to another. However, it has inherent support of MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and Oracle database. We can also use the other database using via third-party drivers. Key Features of Django It is much secure as compare to other web frameworks. URL routing. Template engine. Database schema migration. Authentication support. It has ORM (Object Relation Model). A plethora of ready-to-use libraries. 9. Growler It is an Asynchronous framework built upon the asyncio; it is inspired by the Node JS and the Express/Connect frameworks. In this framework, the request is not handled by the framework itself, but it is dealt with by passing through middleware technology. It is a best-fitted framework to implement complex applications more straightforwardly. Key Features of Growler Support for a multitude of open-source packages. Use decorator for writing clean, reusable code. It uses the decorators to reduce the complexity of code, and we can write the reusable code. There is a ziapp module that allows zipping an entire application into a single executable file. 10. Uvloop It is meant to be one of the superfast Python web frameworks available amongst the rest of the frameworks, and we cannot ignore that fact. It is considered a substitute for the asyncio event loop; hence, it can be either used in the asyncio-based application or to replace an asyncio in the existing application. Some developers claim Uvloop is twice as fast as Node JS, events, and any Python asynchronous framework. Key Features of Uvloop Lighting fast speed Replacement of asyncio event loop. 11. Sanic Sanic is a web framework built on the top of the up loop. It provides one of the best features, i.e., it offers fast HTTP responses via asynchronous request handling. It provides non-blocking capabilities that improve speed. Moreover, it supports the request handlers and compares them with Python 3.5 await/async functions. Key Features of Sonic Class-based views. Plugging support Capable of reading and writing cookies. It allows various types of logging like error logs and access logs. Availability of handlers with easy to apply for decorators support. 12. MorePath MorePath is a Python WSGI framework, and it is primarily focused on executing more numbers use cases. Moreover, it takes responsibility for Answer Set Application Programming (ASAP). It also includes a standard Python data structure induced into RESTful Web Services. It provides an outstanding feature that automatically converts defined paths in the framework into links for creating apps with the cleanest URLs. Key features of Morepath It provides simple, flexible, and robust permissions. Creating a generic user interface is a simple as sub-classing. All views are generic, Reuse views in views. It offers all the necessary tools to develop RESTful web services. It is extensible with a simple, coherent, and universal extension and overrides mechanism. 13. Picnic It is an object-oriented microframework used to develop JSON-based APIs. This framework is optimized for JSON-based APIs, which can hold the position among the best Python frameworks because it creates the fastest web APIs. Key Features of Picnic It gives support for cookies. Handling routing. It has built-in error handling. It is capable of handling JSON-based requests. 14. Pylons Framework Pylons framework is a Full-stack, open-source framework that aims at the rapid development of applications. This framework includes some of the best elements and properties of Perl, Python, and Ruby. It is available in the maintenance mode, though many developers still use the Pylons framework because it provides a highly flexible web development structure. It promotes reusability and makes use of WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface). Key Features of Pylons Routes. It dispatches the URLs. URL mapping based on Routes configuration via WebHelpers. It provides HTML form validation and generation. 15. Pyramid The Pyramid is an open-source full-stack web framework that aims to reduce as much as the complexity. One of the best advantages of Pyramid is that it can work equally well with small and large-scale applications. Pyramid updates regularly by its developers and runs on Python 3. The current version of Pyramids is 1.10, and it is the tenth update since 2010. Key Features of Pyramid URL Generation Single-file applications It has flexible authentication and authorization. View predicates and many per-route views. Renders. Predicates. Templating and asset specification. Function Decorators. 16. TurboGears TurboGears is a full-stack, open-source, data-driven web application Python framework. It allows developers to develop rapid data-driven web applications. TurboGears comes with the intelligible Templating and supports flexible and powerful ORM. This framework uses components such as Genshi, Repoze, SQLAlchemy, and webOp to develop quickly develops apps demanding database connectivity. Key features of TurboGears All features of TurboGears are implemented as function decorators. Available command-line tools. Multi-database support. MVC-style architecture. It uses pylons as a web server. PasteScript templates. Validation support with Form Encode. 17. Web2Py Web2Py framework is an open-source and scalable Python framework that allows users to develop web applications quickly and smoothly. It is platform-independent, which means it supports all the popular operating systems. Furthermore, this framework provides the facility to simplify the web application development process through a web-based interface, a web server, and a SQL database. Key features of web2py A consistent API. Follow MVC pattern. Role-based access control. Devoid installation and configuration requirements. It provides support for internationalization. Backward compatibility. Readability of multiple protocols. It can run on any web hosting platform that offers support for either Python or Java and Python. 18. Hug This microframework is used to develop and build the web APIs. It consumes the resources when required and uses Cython for compilation and this framework allows us to complete the application development very easily and quickly. Key features of Hug Support automatic documentation. Built-in version management. Follows the principle "once implemented, can use anywhere". 19. CubicWeb Cubic Web is a full stack framework developed and curated by Logilab, it is a free-to-use, semantic, open-source, sematic, open-source, Python-based web framework. Cubic web is based on the data model, and required to have the same defined in order to develop a function application. Cubic web uses cube where other application uses separate views and models. Key features of Cubic Web Support for multiple databases. Security. Reusable Components. Simplifies data-related queries with RQL. OWL (Web Ontology Language). Conclusion In this tutorial, we have mentioned all the essential python frameworks that belong to various categories. This framework can meet the business requirements effectively. We have covered almost every import Python frameworks and their useful features. A developer can choose any framework according to project requirements. Next TopicHow to create a vector in Python using NumPy ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
