https://www.tutorialspoint.com/data_communication_computer_network/index.htm
Data Communication & Computer Network - Tutorialspoint
Data Communication & Computer Network - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks DCN Tutorial Data Comm & Networks Home DCN - Overview DCN - Computer Network Types DCN - Network LAN Technologies DCN - Computer Network Topologies DCN - Computer Network Models DCN - Computer Network Security Physical Layer DCN - Physical Layer Introduction DCN - Digital Transmission DCN - Analog Transmission DCN - Transmission media DCN - Wireless Transmission DCN - Multiplexing DCN - Network Switching Data Link Layer DCN - Data Link Layer Introduction DCN - Error detection and Correction DCN - Data Link Control & Protocols Network Layer DCN - Network Layer Introduction DCN - Network Addressing DCN - Routing DCN - Internetworking DCN - Network Layer Protocols Transport Layer DCN - Transport Layer Introduction DCN - Transmission Control Protocol DCN - User Datagram Protocol Application Layer DCN - Application Layer Introduction DCN - Client-Server Model DCN - Application Protocols DCN - Network Services DCN Useful Resources DCN - Quick Guide DCN - Useful Resources DCN - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Data Communication & Computer Network PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion Data communications refers to the transmission of this digital data between two or more computers and a computer network or data network is a telecommunications network that allows computers to exchange data. The physical connection between networked computing devices is established using either cable media or wireless media. The best-known computer network is the Internet. This tutorial should teach you basics of Data Communication and Computer Network (DCN) and will also take you through various advance concepts related to Data Communication and Computer Network. Why to Learn Data Communication & Computer Network? Network Basic Understanding A system of interconnected computers and computerized peripherals such as printers is called computer network. This interconnection among computers facilitates information sharing among them. Computers may connect to each other by either wired or wireless media. Network Engineering Networking engineering is a complicated task, which involves software, firmware, chip level engineering, hardware, and electric pulses. To ease network engineering, the whole networking concept is divided into multiple layers. Each layer is involved in some particular task and is independent of all other layers. But as a whole, almost all networking tasks depend on all of these layers. Layers share data between them and they depend on each other only to take input and send output. Internet A network of networks is called an internetwork, or simply the internet. It is the largest network in existence on this planet.The internet hugely connects all WANs and it can have connection to LANs and Home networks. Internet uses TCP/IP protocol suite and uses IP as its addressing protocol. Present day, Internet is widely implemented using IPv4. Because of shortage of address spaces, it is gradually migrating from IPv4 to IPv6. Internet enables its users to share and access enormous amount of information worldwide. It uses WWW, FTP, email services, audio and video streaming etc. At huge level, internet works on Client-Server model. Internet uses very high speed backbone of fiber optics. To inter-connect various continents, fibers are laid under sea known to us as submarine communication cable. Applications of Communication & Computer Network Computer systems and peripherals are connected to form a network.They provide numerous advantages: Resource sharing such as printers and storage devices Exchange of information by means of e-Mails and FTP Information sharing by using Web or Internet Interaction with other users using dynamic web pages IP phones Video conferences Parallel computing Instant messaging Audience This tutorial has been prepared for the computer science graduates to help them understand the basic to advanced concepts related to Data Communication and Computer Networking. After completing this tutorial you will find yourself at a moderate level of expertise in Data Communication and Computer Networking from where you can take yourself to next levels. Prerequisites Before you start proceeding with this tutorial, I'm making an assumption that you are already aware about basic computer concepts like what is keyboard, mouse, monitor, input, output, primary memory and secondary memory etc. If you are not well aware of these concepts then I will suggest to go through our short tutorial on Computer Fundamentals. Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
