https://www.javatpoint.com/hiking-vs-trekking
Difference between Hiking and Trekking - javatpoint
Difference between Hiking and Trekking - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Hiking and Trekking We all must have gone for hiking, trekking, or mountaineering. You all might have heard these terms. We all think that trekking and hiking are the same as both include a certain kind of physical practice. Well, it's not true. Both have some basic differences. But it is interesting to note that hiking and trekking include adventures and some vigorous exercises. So, without further ado, let us have a look at some fundamental differences between the terms. S.NO. HIKING TREKKING 1. Hiking is defined as a physical exercise that includes long walks in natural environments for a day or two, like in mountains, valleys, etc. Trekking is defined as the prolong physical exercise wherein long walks are taken in nature for many days. 2. Hiking is done to gain pleasure and calm and soothes the mind in the natural environment. On the other hand, trekking is also done for recreational purposes, but a particular destination is decided in trekking. For instance, a trekker can choose to go on a pilgrimage through trekking along the way. 3. There are already hiking trails set up by the people so that there is no problem in hiking. Trekking includes unknown paths, crossroads, or areas without any roads. Trekkers have to find their own way to get out of a particular place. 4. The hiking must be done within a day. The area for hiking is 4 Km to 50 Km, which can be covered within a day. Trekking is done for multiple days; therefore, the area for trekking can range from 50 Km to 24,000 Km. 5. Hiking can be done for a day or can be done overnight. Hiking is done for a short span of time. Trekking includes more than three to four days until one has reached the destination. 6. For hiking, a person should be able to walk for 5 hours straight. Trekking can be physically and mentally exhausting. So, a person with good health must go for trekking. A person who can walk 7 hours at a stretch must go for trekking. 7. For hiking, the items required are: A bottle Some snacks Lunch, a pair of socks Apart from that, during overnight trekking, a pair of clothes, tent and sleeping bag will be required. For trekking, the following things are required: 50-60L backpack Tent Clothes Cookware Compass Boots These are the essential things required to go on a trek. So, these are the basic differences between hiking and trekking. The most important thing is to plan and collect the essential items to go on a trek or hiking. For pleasure purposes, it is always advisable to go on hiking because it is only for a day. A person with good health condition must go for trekking. Another important part of trekking and hiking is to decide a particular place where you want to go. It could be any place. For hiking, it is advisable to some mountains, but for trekking, you have to choose a particular place like a pilgrimage. Well, apart from the differences, there are certain benefits of hiking and trekking. So, let us take a look at them. Hiking and trekking lower the risk of heart diseases. These exercises help in improving blood pressure. According to a study, it is advised that one must walk one hour a day as it helps in lowering the risk of chronic diseases. In order to have good physical health, one must go for trekking, hiking, or can walk once a day for an hour. Hiking and trekking are the physical exercises that help us in improving our mental health. Mountains are the ultimate source of pleasure that helps in fighting anxiety, depression, stress, etc. One must not stay indoors all the time. It is important to step outdoors once in a while in order to calm your mind. According to Livestrong Research, hiking and trekking burn 400-500 calories per hour, which helps in achieving overall fitness. Hiking and trekking help us in being creative in our respective fields. The more we stay outdoors, the more it helps in increasing our ability to focus on certain things. The sunlight provides us with Vitamin D, which helps in boosting our immune system and cardiovascular health. So, these are the benefits of hiking and trekking. Now, you must be wondering; is hiking and trekking difficult? Well, hiking and trekking depend upon the terrain and altitude. Hiking and trekking depend upon the physical health of the person. If a person is fit, then he/ she can sustain for a week or so. Some people cannot travel in the hills or mountains. But if one has a good immune system, then he/ she can go on hiking and trekking. Hiking and trekking are done to refresh the mind. Both these physical exercises help in improving concentration. Hiking and trekking result in overall fitness, which is very important to survive and lead a good life. Thus, both hiking and trekking help in maintaining the overall health of the person. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
