https://www.javatpoint.com/memcached-tutorial
Memcached Tutorial - Javatpoint
Memcached Tutorial - Javatpoint ? Home Memcached Java TestNG Selenium Blockchain HTML CSS JavaScript DS Control System jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Memcached Tutorial Memcached Tutorial Installation Process Memcached Example Storage Commands Memcached Set Data Memcached Add Data Memcached Prepend Data Memcached CAS Retrieval Commands Memcached Get Data Memcached Get CAS Data Memcached Delete Key Statistics Commands Memcached Stats Memcached Stats Items Memcached Stats Slabs Memcached Stats Sizes Memcached Clear Data Interview Questions Memcached I/Q next ? Memcached Tutorial Memcached tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of Memcached. Our Memcached tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. Memcached is a free, open-source, high-performance, distributed memory object caching system. Memcached is used to speed up dynamic web applications by reducing the database load. Memcached is used by all the major websites having huge data for example, YouTube, Wikipedia, Twitter etc. Here, you will learn What is Memcached, History of Memcached, Components of Memcached, Features of Memcached, Disadvantages of Memcached, How Does Memcached Work, Installation Process of Memcached, Memcached Storage Commands, How to set, get, replace, delete data in Memcached etc. What is Memcached? Memcached is pronounced as mem-cash-dee or mem-cached. It is a free, open-source, high-performance, distributed memory object caching system. Memcached is used to speed up dynamic web applications by reducing the database load. Memcached is used by all the major websites having huge data for example, YouTube, Wikipedia, Twitter etc. Memcached is used in memory caching software because it is very easy to install on any Windows or Unix system. It offers API integration for all the major languages like PHP, Java, C/C++, Python, Ruby, Perl etc. It stores the data based on key values for small arbitrary strings or objects including: Results of database calls API calls Page rendering History of Memcached Memcached was originally developed by Brad Fitzpatrick from Danga Interactive for LiveJournal in 2003. It was written is Perl, but is rewritten in C by Anatoly Vorobey. Components of Memcached Memcached is made up of 4 main components. These components allow the client and the server to work together in order to deliver cached data as efficiently as possible:. Client Software: It is used to give a list of available Memcached servers. A Client-based hashing algorithm: It chooses a server based on the key. Server Software: It is used to store values and their keys into an internal hash table. LRU: LRU stands for Least Recently Used. This determines when to throw out old data or reuse memory. Features of Memcached It is open source. It is very scalable; just add boxes with memory to spare. Memcached runs as a standalone service. So, if you take your application down, the cached data will remain in memory as long as the service runs. Memcached server is a big hash table. It reduces the database load. It is very efficient for websites with high database load. The cache nodes are very ignorant: which means they have no knowledge about other nodes participating. This handles the management and configuration of such a system extremely easy. It is distributed under BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution) license. It is a client server application over UDP or TCP. Disadvantages of Memcached It is not a fault- tolerant tool. Compared to in-memory cache, it is very slow, mostly because of serialization or deserialization and network latency. The cache nodes are very ignorant: For example, there is no way to iterate over all of the cached items. It is not a persistent datastore. How does Memcached Work? As mentioned above, Memcached has four main components and these components are what allow it to store and retrieve data. Each item is comprised of a key, expiration time, and raw data. At a high-level Memcached works as follows: The client requests a piece of data then Memcached checks to see if it is stored in cache. There may a possibility of two possible outcomes: If the data is stored in cache: return the data from Memcached (there is no need to check the database). The data is not stored in cache: query the database, retrieve the data, and subsequently store it in Memcached. Whenever information is modified or the expiry value of an item has expired, Memcached update its cache to ensure fresh content is delivered to the client. This setup has various Memcached servers and many clients. Clients use a hasing algorithm to determine memcahed storage server for use. This helps to distribute the load. And then server computes a second hash of the key in order to determine where it should store the corresponding value in an internal hash table. Some important things about Memcached architecture are: Data is only sent to one server Servers don't share data Servers keep the values in RAM - if RAM runs out the oldest value is discarded. Memcached Tutorial Index Memcached Tutorial Memcached Tutorial Memcached Introduction Installation Process Memcached Example Storage Commands Memcached Set Data Memcached Add Data Memcached Prepend Data Memcached CAS Retrieval Commands Memcached Get Data Memcached Get CAS Data Memcached Delete Key Statistics Commands Memcached Stats Memcached Stats Items Memcached Stats Slabs Memcached Stats Sizes Memcached Clear Data Memcached Interview Questions Memcached I/Q Prerequisite Before learning Memcached, you should have basic knowledge of data structure and the working of cache. Audience Our Memcached tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. Problems We assure you that you will not find any problem in this Memcached Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. Next TopicHow to Install Memcached next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
