https://www.javatpoint.com/django-vs-node-js
Django vs. Node JS | Difference between Django and Node JS - Javatpoint
Django vs. Node JS | Difference between Django and Node JS - Javatpoint ? Home Python If Else For Loop Function Array String Regex List Set Tuple Dictionary Lambda Function Modules Programs Tkinter Numpy Interview Questions Python Tutorial Python Tutorial Python Features Python History Python Applications Python Install Python Example Python Variables Python Data Types Python Keywords Python Literals Python Operators Python Comments Python If else Python Loops Python For Loop Python While Loop Python Break Python Continue Python Pass Python Strings Python Lists Python Tuples Python List Vs Tuple Python Sets Python Dictionary Python Functions Python Built-in Functions Python Lambda Functions Python Files I/O Python Modules Python Exceptions Python Date Python Regex Python Sending Email Read CSV File Write CSV File Read Excel File Write Excel File Python Assert Python List Comprehension Python Collection Module Python Math Module Python OS Module Python Random Module Python Statistics Module Python Sys Module Python IDEs Python Arrays Command Line Arguments Python Magic Method Python Stack & Queue PySpark MLlib Python Decorator Python Generators Web Scraping Using Python Python JSON Python Itertools Python Multiprocessing Python OOPs Python OOPs Concepts Python Object Class Python Constructors Python Inheritance Abstraction in Python Python MySQL Environment Setup Database Connection Creating New Database Creating Tables Insert Operation Read Operation Update Operation Join Operation Performing Transactions Python MongoDB Python MongoDB Python SQLite Python SQLite Python Questions How to install Python in Windows How to reverse a string in Python How to read CSV file in Python How to run Python Program How to take input in Python How to convert list to string in Python How to append element in the list How to compare two lists in Python How to convert int to string in Python How to create a dictionary in Python How to create a virtual environment in Python How to declare a variable in Python How to install matplotlib in Python How to install OpenCV in Python How to print in same line in Python How to read JSON file in Python How to read a text file in Python How to use for loop in Python Is Python scripting language How long does it take to learn Python How to concatenate two strings in Python How to connect Database in Python How to convert list to dictionary in Python How to declare a global variable in Python How to reverse a number in Python What is an object in Python Which is the fastest implementation of Python How to clear Python shell How to create a DataFrames in Python How to develop a game in Python How to install Tkinter in Python How to plot a graph in Python How to print pattern in Python How to remove an element from a list in Python How to Round number in Python How to sort a dictionary in Python Strong Number in Python How to Convert Text to Speech in Python Bubble Sort in Python Logging in Python Insertion Sort in Python Binary Search in Python Linear Search in Python Python vs Scala Queue in Python Stack in Python Heap Sort in Python Palindrome program in python Program of Cumulative sum in python Merge Sort in Python Python Matrix Python Unit Testing Forensics & Virtualization Best Books to Learn Python Best Books to Learn Django GCD of two number in python Python Program to generate a Random String How to One Hot Encode Sequence Data in Python How to write square root in Python Pointer in Python Python 2D array Python Memory Management Python Libraries for Data Visualization How to call a function in Python Git Modules in Python Top Python Frameworks for Gaming Python Audio Modules Wikipedia Module in Python Python random randrange() Permutation and Combination in Python Getopt module in Python Merge two Dictionaries in Python Multithreading in Python 3 Static in Python How to get the current date in Python argparse in Python Python tqdm Module Caesar Cipher in Python Tokenizer in Python How to add two lists in Python Shallow Copy and Deep Copy in Python Atom Python Contains in Python Label Encoding in Python Django vs. Node JS Python Frameworks How to create a vector in Python using NumPy Pickle Module of Python How to convert Bytes to string in Python Python Program to Find Anagram How to convert List to Set Python vs JavaScript Python Holidays Module FuzzyWuzzy Python Library Dask Python Python Tkinter (GUI) Python Tkinter Tkinter Button Tkinter Canvas Tkinter Checkbutton Tkinter Entry Tkinter Frame Tkinter Label Tkinter Listbox Tkinter Menubutton Tkinter Menu Tkinter Message Tkinter Radiobutton Tkinter Scale Tkinter Scrollbar Tkinter Text Tkinter Toplevel Tkinter Spinbox Tkinter PanedWindow Tkinter LabelFrame Tkinter MessageBox Python Web Blocker Introduction Building Python Script Script Deployment on Linux Script Deployment on Windows Python MCQ Python MCQ Related Tutorials NumPy Tutorial Django Tutorial Flask Tutorial Pandas Tutorial Pytorch Tutorial Pygame Tutorial Matplotlib Tutorial OpenCV Tutorial Openpyxl Tutorial Python CGI Python Design Pattern Python Programs Python Programs next ? ? prev Django vs. Node JS | Difference between Django and Node JS In this tutorial, we will discuss the primary difference between both trending technologies Django and Node JS. This tutorial will give you a deep analysis of both technologies that will help you select the appropriate language for projects or your career. We will explore all the essential topics as advantages, disadvantages, and their uses. Both technologies are much powerful in building the various purpose web-applications with an excellent user interface. Both are open-source, which means anyone can use them without any paid license. Let's have an overview of each technology which is given below. What is Django? Django is a high-level web framework that permits the user to develop secure and maintainable websites. It is written in the Python programming language. Experienced programmers build it. Django handles the hassle of Web development so that users can write efficient web-applications. It has a vast active community, excellent documentation, and other features. Features of Django Django comes with the many useful features. Complete Django is based on the "Battery included" approach that allows the developer to do the things "out of the box." It provides almost every feature that works seamlessly together and follows a consistent design principle. If the user stuck while using it, he/she can take help from its up-to-date documentation. Versatile Django is a versatile framework and used to develop multi-purpose or any web applications. One of the advantages is that it can easily collaborate with the client-side framework and bring content in almost any format. Secure Security is the main reason for the popularity of Django. It provides the best security to the web-application and avoids common security mistakes. It has been engineered to "do the right things" that automatically protects web applications. Django comes with a secure way to manage the password; it also avoids common mistakes such as putting session information in cookies where it is susceptible. Django protects the web-applications against many security issues such as SQL injection, cross-site scripting, and cross-site request forgetting and clickjacking. Scalable The architecture of Django is independent of others and can be changed or replace easily if required. The different parts of Django have a clear separation that means it can increase traffic by adding hardware at any level. Maintainable Django encourages writing maintainable and reusable code. It follows the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) approach, so we will not get any unnecessary duplication. It promotes the grouping of related functionality into the reusable application. What is Node JS? Node JS is a server-side JavaScript platform; it is intended to build scalable network applications and was developed by Ryan Dahl in 2009. Node JS is a cross-platform runtime environment that is used for evolving server-side as well as networking applications. Node JS consists of a non-blocking and event-driven model that makes it lightweight and effective. Features of Node JS Below are the few important features of Node JS. Asynchronous and Event-Driven Node JS's APIs are asynchronous and event-driven, which means a Node JS bases server doesn't need to wait for an API to return data. A notification mechanism informs the server that the previous API generates a response while working on the new API. Speed The Node.JS library provides the superfast speed to execute the code as it is built upon Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine. Highly Scalable Node.JS is highly scalable because it uses a single-threaded model with event looping. Its event mechanism allows the server to respond in a non-blocking way where the traditional servers create limited threads to handle requests. It makes Node.JS highly scalable. The Node.JS single thread program can provide the service to a large number compared to traditional servers such as Apache HTTP. No Buffering Node.JS application doesn't buffer while processing the data. These applications process the output data in portions. Difference between Django and Node.JS Characteristics Django Node JS Definition Django is Python based web framework. It is an open-source platform to build rich web applications. Node JS is an open-source web application that runs on JavaScript designed to build powerful APIs (Client-side). Security It provides strong security and comes with highly protected built-in system which prevents any deficiency. It is not secure as Django and requires manual operations to handle the security issues. Performance It provides much better performance and helping to create major web-applications. It comes with a built-in house template system that facilitates the execution of a required task quickly. Node JS's performance is quite impressive as it provide the freedom to developers. But it takes much time to develop the application. Efficiency Django is very efficient and provides fast speed. And so, it is cost effective. It consumes more operating time. However, it is easy to learn. It is less cost effective. Architecture It follows the MVT model template view. It works on the event-driven model. It runs on an operating system maintaining a small stack of requests. Flexibility This framework is less flexible and has quite strict development features. In Node JS, there are various tools and features available because it is built upon a JavaScript library. Development Speed It takes less operating time due to the built-in system; However, it is time-consuming to learn if the developer doesn't know python. It takes more operating time but if developers are experienced with JavaScript then it is quite helpful. Tool Type It is a web framework. It is a runtime environment. Community Django has a vast community across the world and up-to-date documentation. It also has a vast community. Architectures of Node JS and Django Django Django follows the MVT (Model View Template) architecture. It provides several advantages over the many old frameworks. It helps the developer to build apps faster and advanced. Its component-based pattern helps in ease modification. One change in a component does not affect the whole application or another component. Node JS Node JS architecture is quite dissimilar to the other server-side platforms. It is based on the even loop architecture and single-threaded that helps to build high-end applications. The advantage of single-threaded is that there is no context switching between that helps to reduce reloads. In Node JS, handling multiple concurrent requests is easy and very fast. It provides robustness to the application and making them available for processing requests without delay. Advantages and Disadvantages of Django Below are the few important pros and cons of Django. Advantages It provides better security to the web-application. It takes less time to complete large projects as compared to other frameworks. It offers a better performance level with in-build templates. It is comparatively easy to learn. Disadvantages It allows the building of only single-tiered applications. It is not suitable for small apps. It requires more understanding of the framework. Advantages and Disadvantages of Node JS Below are a few important pros and cons of Node JS. Advantages It has an active and huge community across the world. It is open-source and consists of more libraries. It has an easier system to follow with less complicated features. We can execute commands open handily. Conclusion In this tutorial, we have learned the difference between two leading web technologies - Node JS and Django. Moreover, we have also discussed the various aspects of both technologies. Both technologies are suitable to build large-scale web applications or web apps. Before choosing anyone from them, we need to understand our requirements. Django is much secure where it maintains passwords effectively and Node JS provides many libraries, which helps the developer create highly flexible web apps. There is no specific answer to the question, "Which technology is much better?" All we need to understand the project requirements then should move to the most appropriate technology. Next TopicPython Frameworks ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
