https://www.javatpoint.com/plant-tissue-vs-animal-tissue
Difference between Plant Tissue and Animal Tissue - javatpoint
Difference between Plant Tissue and Animal Tissue - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Plant Tissue and Animal Tissue Plants and animals are the prized possessions that we have received from nature. Plants and animals are important parts of nature. But today, there are many species of plants and animals that have become extinct due to us. We have harmed nature in certain ways for our convenience. For instance, many trees were cut down for the construction of the metro in several cities. Now, let us discuss about plant tissue and animal tissue. There are certain differences between plant tissue and animal tissue. Both are different in certain aspects like cell walls, tissue organization, etc. Let us look at some fundamental differences between plant tissue and animal tissue. S.NO. PLANT TISSUE ANIMAL TISSUE 1. There are many dead and supportive tissues in plant cells as compared to the living tissues. In animals, there are more living tissues as compared to dead tissues. 2. Plant tissues require very little energy for their maintenance. Animal tissues require more energy as compared to plant tissues. 3. There are two kinds of tissues in plants, i.e., permanent tissues and meristematic tissues. On the other hand, there are four kinds of animal tissues, i.e., muscle tissue, epithelial tissue, connective tissue, and nervous tissue. 4. Meristematic tissues are required for assisting plant growth. A plant grows with the help of this tissue. Animals do not have such growth tissues, but they do have reparative growth. 5. Plants have easier tissue organization. The tissue organization in animals is quite complex. 6. Plant tissues have a cell wall. Animal tissues do not have such cell walls. 7. Permanent tissues and Meristematic tissue are observed differently in plants. On the other hand, there is no differentiation between the tissues. So, these are the key differences between plant tissue and animal tissue. Now, let us discuss plant and animal tissues in detail. Well, plant tissue is defined as the group of similar cells performing the same function. Plant tissues help the plants in creating organs like stems, flowers, roots, etc. Plant tissues are divided into two categories, i.e., meristematic tissue and permanent tissue. Meristematic Tissue results in plant growth. The cells in this tissue grow asymmetrically. Every plant cell originates from the meristematic tissue. On the other hand, the permanent tissue is further divided into simple and complex tissue. The permanent simple plant tissue is thin. This is called the epidermis. The epidermis has guard cells that regulate the amount of air and water in leaves. Parenchyma is another tissue in the plant which is responsible for undertaking the process of photosynthesis. In permanent complex plant tissue, there are xylem and phloem tissues present in the plants. Both the tissues are responsible for regulating the amount of food and nutrients and also carrying sugar to the roots and stems. Animal tissues are classified into four categories. Let us discuss them in detail. Epithelial Tissue: The internal and external organs of animals have epithelial tissues. These tissues are responsible for protection, secretion, absorption, etc. There are four kinds of epithelial tissues, i.e., squamous epithelial tissue, stratified epithelial tissue, cubical epithelial tissue, and columnar epithelial tissue. Muscle Tissue: The muscles in an animal body are made up of these tissues. These tissues are responsible for the movement of the body, i.e., contraction and relaxation of muscles. The three types of muscle tissues are: Smooth Muscle Tissues Cardiac Muscle Tissues Skeletal Muscle Tissues Connective Tissue: Connective Tissues are a collection of different tissues that link organs and tissues together. Apart from connecting and linking tissues, these tissues are also responsible for transporting the substances among the organs. There are six types of connective tissues, i.e., areolar tissue, adipose tissue, lymph, blood, cartilage, and bone. Nervous Tissue: Nervous Tissues are made up of neurons and neuroglia. The nervous tissues are responsible for the travel of electrochemical impulses. So, these are some of the categories of plant and animal tissues. Plants and animal tissues are different and unique in their own sense. Plant tissues and animal tissues have certain differences that are already mentioned above. It is interesting to note that there are certain passages through which food, nutrients, water, and air are supplied in plants. In animals, there are no passages for that. Thus, plant tissues and animal tissues are different in their own sense. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
