https://www.javatpoint.com/cobol
COBOL Tutorial - Javatpoint
COBOL Tutorial - Javatpoint ? Home COBOL C C++ C# Java SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Cloud Design Pattern Projects Interview Q Comment Forum COBOL Tutorial COBOL Tutorial COBOL Installation COBOL Program Structure COBOL Coding Sheet COBOL Divisions COBOL Data Types COBOL Verbs COBOL Data Layout Conditional Statements Loop Statements String Handling Array/Table Processing File Handling File Access Mode File Handling Verbs Internal Sort Database Interface next ? COBOL Tutorial COBOL is a Common Bussiness Oriented Language. It is a high level programming language. COBOL is used by the US Department of Defense, in a conference, formed CODASYL (Conference on Data Systems Language) to develop a language. COBOL is used for writing application programs, and we can't use it to write system software. COBOL - Introduction COBOL is a Common Business Oriented Language. It is a high-level programming language. As the expanded acronym suggests, COBOL is designed for developing business, typically file-oriented applications. COBOL is used by the US Department of Defense, in a conference, formed CODASYL (Conference on Data Systems Language) to develop a language. COBOL is used for writing application programs, and we can't use it to write system software. This means you would not develop an operating system or a compiler using COBOL. How COBOL Works We must understand the way COBOL works. Computers only know machine code, a binary stream of 0s and 1s. The code of COBOL must be converted into machine code using a compiler. Run the program source through the compiler. The compiler first of all checks for any syntax errors and then converts it into machine language. Then the compiler creates an output file, which is known as a load module. This output file contains executable code in the form of 1s and 0s. History of COBOL COBOL language was one of the earliest high-level programming languages. During the 1950s, when the businesses were rising in the western part of the world, there was a need to automate various processes for ease of operation, and this gave birth to a high-level programming language destined for business data processing. In 1959, the COBOL language was developed by Conference on Data Systems Languages (CODASYL). The government printing office printed the COBOL specification as COBOL60 in 1960. COBOL-61, which is the next version of COBOL, was released in 1961 with some revisions. In 1968, COBOL was approved by ANSI (American National Standards Institute) as a standard language for commercial use. A version named COBOL-68. It was again revised in 1974 and 1985 to develop subsequent versions that contain an additional set of features named COBOL-74 and COBOL-85, respectively. And finally, in 2002, object-oriented COBOL was released, which could use encapsulated objects as a normal part of COBOL programming. Features of COBOL Standard Language COBOL is a standard language that can be compiled and executed on systems such as IBM AS/400, personal computers, etc. Business Oriented COBOL is developed for business-oriented applications related to defense domain, financial domain, etc. Structured Language Logical control structures are offered in COBOL, which makes it easier to read and modify. COBOL provides different divisions, so it is easy to debug. Robust Language COBOL is a robust language as its numerous testing, and debugging tools are available for almost all computer platforms. Simple Language COBOL is a simple language. No user-defined functions, no user-defined types, no pointers, and a limited scope of function. Self-documenting One of the major design goals for COBOL was to make it possible for non-programmers such as managers, supervisors, and users to read and understand COBOL code. Advantages of COBOL COBOL is the first generally used high-level programming language. It can handle huge data processing. It is used as a documenting language. The resolution of bugs is easier because it has an effective error message. It is compatible with its past versions. Prerequisite Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a basic knowledge of computer programming terminologies and JCL. A basic knowledge of any of the programming languages will help you get the concepts of COBOL programming and move fast on the learning track. Audience This tutorial is created for software programmers who would like to learn the basics of COBOL. This tutorial will provide enough understanding of COBOL programming language from where you can take yourself to a higher level of expertise. Problems We assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning our COBOL tutorial. But if there is any mistake in this tutorial, kindly post the problem or error in the contact form so that we can improve it. Next TopicCOBOL Installation next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
