https://www.javatpoint.com/disaster
Disaster | What is Disaster - javatpoint
Disaster | What is Disaster - javatpoint ? Home Definitions Reasoning Aptitude Verbal Ability GK Programs Projects Interview Q Java JSP Android C# HTML CSS jQuery Training Definitions Antibiotics Definition Conjunction Definition Corrosion Definition Deforestation Definition Pressure Definition Viscosity Definition Water Pollution Definition Even Numbers Definition Kinetic Energy Definition Anemia Definition Blood Pressure Definition Stress Definition Asynchronous Definition Entropy Definition Real Numbers Definition Frame Definition Sonar Definition Asthma Definition Cancer Definition Epidemic Definition Analog Definition Humidity Definition Parasite Definition Reproduction Definition Advertising Definition Disaster Definition Interjection Definition Precipitation Definition Sublimation Definition Surface Tension Definition Enzyme Definition next ? ? prev What is Disaster? A disaster is defined as a sudden, destructive occurrence that disrupts a community's or society's functioning and causes human, environmental damage, economic and material losses. It is greater than the community's or society's capacity to cope with using its resources. While often caused by nature, disasters may have human causes. In today's academia, disasters are viewed as the result of ineffective risk management. These challenges are the result of a confluence of hazards and vulnerabilities. Hazards that occur in low-vulnerability areas will never become disasters, as they do in uninhabited regions. (VULNERABILITY+ HAZARD) / CAPACITY = DISASTER Across all of history, natural disasters and military conflict have already marked human life and triggered peaks in mortality and morbidity. Types of Disasters There are mainly two types of disaster: Natural Disaster Man-made Disaster Natural Disaster A natural disaster is a natural process or occurrence that can lead to property harm, injury or other health effects, loss of livelihoods, loss of life, environmental damage, and economic disruption. These types of disasters are as follows: Earthquakes Floods Drought Wildfires Cyclone Tornadoes and Severe Storms According to the International Federation of Red Cross, natural physical events are caused either by fast or slow accidents that directly impact human health and cause more death and misery. The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction characterizes natural disasters in terms of magnitude or severity, onset speed, length, and area of magnitude. For example, earthquakes are a short time of duration and typically affect relatively small regions, while droughts are slow to grow and fade and often affect large areas. Man-Made Disaster Technological or human faults cause Man-made disasters. Man-made disasters include stamping, oil spills, burning, industrial accidents, nuclear explosions/radiation, and transport incidents. Battle and deliberate attacks can also be included in this group. As with natural threats, man-made hazards are occurrences that have not existed, such as terrorism. Man-made disasters are examples of particular situations in which man-made threats have become a fact in an event. Complex Emergencies Some disasters are caused by a combination of natural and man-made disasters, including a robbery, breakdown of authority, and attacks on strategic facilities, like conflict situations and war. There are various complex emergencies given below: Epidemics Displaced Populations Food Insecurity Armed Conflicts Extensive Violence Displacement of populations Pandemic Emergencies The pandemic is an infectious disease outbreak that has spread to a wide area that can impact the human or animal population and affect health and interrupt services, resulting in economic and social costs. It may be an unexpected rise in the number of infectious diseases that already occur in a particular region or population. It may also apply to the emergence of many cases of an infectious disease in an area or population that is usually disease-free. Pandemic emergencies can arise as a result of natural or man-made disasters. Some Pandemic emergencies are as follows: Coronavirus Disease (Covid-19) Malaria Dengue fever Zika Yellow Fever Avian Flu Disaster Prevention Disaster prevention is the full prevention of adverse impacts of hazards. The prevention of associated disasters reflects the idea and purpose of fully preventing future adverse effects by steps taken in advance. The complete prevention of losses is often not possible, and the task is transformed into that of reduction. For this reason, the words prevention and mitigation are often used interchangeably in casual usage. Disaster Response or Relief There is no clear distinction between this response and relief and the subsequent recovery stage, which focuses mainly on immediate and short-term requirements. Some response steps, including emergency shelter and water sources, will last long into the recovery stage. The main objectives of disaster management and relief are the rescue from immediate danger and reconstructing the survivor's physical and emotional condition. It also helps to recover primary resources like water and electricity. A coordinated multi-agency response at this level of disaster management is crucial to reduce the effects of a disaster and its long-term outcomes of recovery activities. Some of the recovery activities are as follows: Provision Food and Water Repairing Vital Services, for example, Transport and Telecommunications Provision Temporary Shelter Disease prevention and Disability Provision Emergency Health Care Rescue Relocation Disaster Recovery The vulnerability of communities also persists for a long time after the initial crisis has ended. Disaster recovery refers to services that go beyond providing emergency help to those who've endured the full effects of a disaster and include the following activities: Rehabilitation Health Care Rebuilding Infrastructure, like, Homes, Roads, Schools, and Hospitals. Development Activities, like, building human resources for health. Policies and practices for future development to prevent or minimize similar situations Next TopicInterjection Definition ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
