https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-put-tick-mark-in-excel
How to Put Tick Mark in Excel - javatpoint
How to Put Tick Mark in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to Put Tick Mark in Excel? In Excel, a checkmark is used to show whether a given task is done or not. Remember, it is different from the checkbox. There are two kinds of checkmarks in Excel - interactive checkbox and tick symbol. A tick box, also known as a checkbox or checkmark box, is a special control that allows to select or deselect an option, i.e., check or uncheck a tick box, by clicking on it with the mouse. A tick symbol, referred to as a check symbol or checkmark, is a special symbol (?) that can insert into a cell (alone or in combination with any other characters) to express the concept. Sometimes, the cross mark (x) is also used for this purpose, but more often, it indicates incorrectness or failure. There are three simple methods to insert a checkmark in excel. The first one is just copying a tick mark and paste it into Excel, the second option is inserting a symbol from the insert tab, and the third option is when we change the font to windings 2 and press the keyboard shortcut SHIFT+P. How to Put a Tick Using the Symbol Command The most common way to insert a tick symbol in Excel is the symbol command. Follow the following steps: Step 1: Select a cell where you want to insert a checkmark. Step 2: Go to the Insert tab and click on the Symbol button in the Symbols group. Step 3: In the Symbol dialog box, on the Symbols tab, click the drop-down arrow next to the Font box, and select Wingdings. Step 4: A couple of checkmark and cross symbols can find at the bottom of the list. Select the symbol of your choosing, and click Insert. Step 5: Finally, click Close to close the Symbol window. As soon as you've selected a certain symbol in the Symbol dialog window, Excel will display its code in the Character code box at the bottom. For example, the tick symbol's character code (?) is 252, as shown in the above image. Knowing this code, you can easily write a formula to insert a check symbol in Excel or count tick marks in a selected range. Using the Symbol command, you can insert a checkmark in an empty cell or add a tick as part of the cell contents. How to Insert Tick Mark Using the CHAR Function Maybe it is not a conventional way to add a tick or cross symbol in Excel, but if you love working with formulas, it may become your favorite one. This method can only use for inserting a tick in an empty cell. Knowing the following symbol codes: The formula to put a checkmark in Excel is as simple as this: 
=CHAR(252) or =CHAR(254)
 To add a cross symbol, use either of the following formulas: 
=CHAR(251) or =CHAR(253)
 NOTE: For the tick and cross symbols to be displayed correctly, the Wingdings font should be applied to the formula cells. Once you've inserted a formula in one cell, you can swiftly copy a tick to other cells like you usually copy formulas in Excel. To get rid of the formulas, use the Paste Special feature to replace them with values: Select the formula cell. Press Ctrl + Cto copy it. Right-click on the selected cell. Then click Paste Special And click on the Values Insert Tick by Typing the Character Code Another quick way to insert a check symbol in Excel is typing its character code directly in a cell while holding the Alt key. The detailed steps follow below: Step 1: Select the cell where you want to put a tick. Step 2: Go to the Home tab and change font to Wingdings in the Font group. Step 3: Press and hold ALT while typing one of the following character codes on the numeric keypad. As you may have noticed, the character codes are the same as the codes we used in the CHAR formulas but for leading zeros. NOTE: For the character codes to work, make sure NUM LOCK is on, and use the numerical keypad rather than the numbers at the top of the keyboard. Insert Tick Symbol Using Keyboard Shortcuts If you do not particularly like the appearance of the four check symbols we have added so far, check out the following table for more variations: To get any of the above tick marks in your Excel, apply either Wingdings 2 or Webdings font to the cell where you want to insert a tick and press the corresponding keyboard shortcut. How to Make a Checkmark with AutoCorrect in Excel If you need to insert tick marks in your sheets daily, none of the above methods may seem fast enough. Luckily, Excel's AutoCorrect feature can automate the work for you. To put this, you need to follow the following steps: Step 1: Insert the desired check symbol in a cell using any of the techniques described above. Step 2: Select the symbol in the formula bar and press Ctrl + C to copy it. Don't be discouraged by the symbol's appearance in the formula bar. Even if it looks different from what you see in the screenshot above, it just means that you inserted a tick symbol using another character code. Step 3: Look at the Font box and make a good note of the font theme, as you will need it later when "auto-inserting" a tick in other cells. Step 4: Click on the File tab, go to the Excel Options, and select Proofing. Step 5: And click on the AutoCorrect Options. Step 6: The AutoCorrect dialog window will open, and you do the following: In the Replace box, type a word or phrase that you want to associate with the check symbol, e.g., "tickmark". In the Withbox, press Ctrl + V to paste the symbol that you copied in the formula bar. Step 7: Click on the Add button, and then click on the OK button to close the AutoCorrect dialog window. And now, whenever you want to put a tick in your Excel sheet, do the following: Type the word that you linked with the checkmark, and press Enter. The symbol ü (or some other symbol that you copied from the formula bar) will appear in a cell. To turn it into an Excel tick symbol, apply the appropriate font to the cell. In this method, you have to configure the AutoCorrect option only once. From now on, Excel will be adding a tick for you automatically every time you type the associated word in a cell. Conditionally Format Cells Based on the Tick Symbol If your cells do not contain any data other than a tick mark, you can create a conditional formatting rule that will apply the desired format to those cells automatically. A big advantage of this approach is that you will not have to re-format the cells manually when you delete a tick symbol. To create a conditional formatting rule, perform the following steps: Step 1: Select the cells that you want to format. Step 2: Go to the Home tab and click on the Conditional Formatting in the Styles group. Step 3: Now click on the New Rule button. Step 4: In the New Formatting Rule dialog box, select Use a formula to determine which cells to format. Step 5: In the Format values where this formula is a true box, enter the CHAR formula: 
=$B2=CHAR(252)
 Where B2 is the topmost cells that can potentially contain a tick, and 252 is the character code of the tick symbol inserted in your sheet. Step 6: Click on the Format button, choose the desired formatting style, and click OK. The result will look something similar to this: NOTE: This formatting technique works only for the tick symbols with a known character code added via the symbol command, CHAR function, or Character code. How to Count Tick Marks in Excel Experienced Excel users must have gotten the formula up and running based on the previous sections' information. Using the CHAR function to detect the cells containing a check symbol and the COUNTIF function to count those cells: 
=COUNTIF(B2:B9,CHAR(252))
 B2:B9 is the range you want to count checkmarks, and 252 is the check symbol's character code. NOTE: As is the case with conditional formatting, the above formula can only handle tick symbols with a specific character code and works for cells that do not contain any data other than a check symbol. If you use Excel tick boxes (checkboxes) rather than tick symbols, you can count the selected (checked) ones by linking checkboxes to cells and then counting the number of TRUE values in the linked cells. Next TopicHow to Remove Passwords from Excel File ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
