https://www.javatpoint.com/database-schema
Database Schema - Javatpoint
Database Schema - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Database Schema A database schema is a structure that represents the logical storage of the data in a database. It represents the organization of data and provides information about the relationships between the tables in a given database. In this topic, we will understand more about database schema and its types. Before understanding database schema, lets first understand what a Database is. What is Database? A database is a place to store information. It can store the simplest data, such as a list of people as well as the most complex data. The database stores the information in a well-structured format. What is Database Schema? A database schema is the logical representation of a database, which shows how the data is stored logically in the entire database. It contains list of attributes and instruction that informs the database engine that how the data is organized and how the elements are related to each other. A database schema contains schema objects that may include tables, fields, packages, views, relationships, primary key, foreign key, In actual, the data is physically stored in files that may be in unstructured form, but to retrieve it and use it, we need to put it in a structured form. To do this, a database schema is used. It provides knowledge about how the data is organized in a database and how it is associated with other data. The schema does not physically contain the data itself; instead, it gives information about the shape of data and how it can be related to other tables or models. A database schema object includes the following: Consistent formatting for all data entries. Database objects and unique keys for all data entries. Tables with multiple columns, and each column contains its name and datatype. The complexity & the size of the schema vary as per the size of the project. It helps developers to easily manage and structure the database before coding it. The given diagram is an example of a database schema. It contains three tables, their data types. This also represents the relationships between the tables and primary keys as well as foreign keys. Types of Database Schema The database schema is divided into three types, which are: Logical Schema Physical Schema View Schema 1. Physical Database Schema A physical database schema specifies how the data is stored physically on a storage system or disk storage in the form of Files and Indices. Designing a database at the physical level is called a physical schema. 2. Logical Database Schema The Logical database schema specifies all the logical constraints that need to be applied to the stored data. It defines the views, integrity constraints, and table. Here the term integrity constraints define the set of rules that are used by DBMS (Database Management System) to maintain the quality for insertion & update the data. The logical schema represents how the data is stored in the form of tables and how the attributes of a table are linked together. At this level, programmers and administrators work, and the implementation of the data structure is hidden at this level. Various tools are used to create a logical database schema, and these tools demonstrate the relationships between the component of your data; this process is called ER modelling. The ER modelling stands for entity-relationship modelling, which specifies the relationships between different entities. We can understand it with an example of a basic commerce application. Below is the schema diagram, the simple ER model representing the logical flow of transaction in a commerce application. In the given example, the Ids are given in each circle, and these Ids are primary key & foreign keys. The primary key is used to uniquely identify the entry in a document or record. The Ids of the upper three circles are the primary keys. The Foreign key is used as the primary key for other tables. The FK represent the foreign key in the diagram. It relates one table to another table. 3. View Schema The view level design of a database is known as view schema. This schema generally describes the end-user interaction with the database systems. Difference between the Physical and Logical Database Schema Physical database schema Logical Database schema It does not include the attributes. It includes the attributes. It contains both primary & secondary Keys. It also contains both primary & secondary keys. It contains the table name. It contains the names of the tables. It contains the column names and their data types. It does not contain any column name or datatype. Database Instance or Database Schema is the same? The terms database schema and database instances are related to each other & sometimes confusing to be used as the same thing. But both are different from each other. Database Schema is a representation of a planned database and does not actually contain the data. On the other hand, a database instance is a type of snapshot of an actual database as it existed at an instance of time. Hence it varies or can be changed as per the time. In contrast, the database schema is static and very complex to change the structure of a database. Both instances and schemas are related to and impact each other through the DBMS. DBMS ensures that every database instance complies with the constraints imposed by the database designers in the database schema. Creating Schema To create a schema, "CREATE SCHEMA" Statements is used in each type of database. But each DBMS has a different meaning for this. Below we are explaining creating schema in different database systems: 1. MySQL In MySQL, the "CREATE SCHEMA" statement creates the database. It is because, in MySQL, the CREATE SCHEMA statement is similar to CREATE DATABASE statement, and schema is a synonym for the database. 2. Oracle Database In Oracle Database, each schema is already present with each database user. Hence CREATE SCHEMA does not actually create a schema; rather, it helps to show the schema with tables and views and allows to access those objects without requiring multiple SQL statements for multiple transactions. The "CREATE USER" statement is used to create a schema in Oracle. 3. SQL Server In the SQL server, the "CREATE SCHEMA" statement creates a new schema with the name provided by the user. Database Schema Designs A schema design is the first step in building a foundation in data management. Ineffective schema designs are difficult to manage and consume more memory and other resources. It logically depends on the business requirements. It is required to choose the correct database schema design to make ease in the project lifecycle. The list of some popular database schema designs is given below: Flat Model Hierarchical Model Network Model Relational Model Star Schema Snowflake Schema Flat Model A flat model schema is a type of 2-D array in which each column contains the same type of data, and elements within a row are related to each other. It can be understood as a single spreadsheet or a database table with no relations. This schema design is most suitable for small applications that don't contain complex data. Hierarchical Model The Hierarchical model design contains a tree-like structure. The tree structure contains the root node of data and its child nodes. Between each child node and parent node, there is a one-to-many relationship. Such type of database schemas is presented by XML or JSON files, as these files can contain the entities with their sub-entities. The hierarchical schema models are best suitable for storing the nested data, such as representing Hominoid classification. Network Model The network model design is similar to hierarchical design as it represents a series of nodes and vertices. The main difference between the network model and the hierarchical model is that the network model allows a many-to-many relationship. In contrast, the hierarchical model only allows a one-to-many relationship. The network model design is best suitable for applications that require spatial calculations. It is also great for representing workflows and mainly for cases with multiple paths to the same result. Relational Model The relational models are used for the relational database, which stores data as relations of the table. There are relational operators used to operate on data to manipulate and calculate different values from it. Star Schema The star schema is a different way of schema design to organize the data. It is best suitable for storing and analysing a huge amount of data, and it works on "Facts" and "Dimensions". Here the fact is the numerical data point that runs business processes, and Dimension is a description of fact. With Star Schema, we can structure the data of RDBMS. Snowflake Schema The snowflake schema is an adaption of a star schema. There is a main "Fact" table in the star schema that contains the main data points and reference to its dimension tables. But in snowflake, dimension tables can have their own dimension tables. Next TopicWhat is bcc ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
