https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-use-countif-function-in-excel
How to use COUNTIF function in Excel - javatpoint
How to use COUNTIF function in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev How to use COUNTIF function in Excel COUNTIF is one of the commonly used in-built statistical functions in the Excel document. It is used to count the number of cells in a given range that meets criteria (match criteria) in the other cells. For example, count the number of cells that contain numbers, text values, as well as dates. COUNTIF function includes logical operators (>,<,<>,=) and wildcards (*,?) to match the criteria. Note: COUNTIF function is not case sensitive means "COA" and "coa" are the same. In Microsoft Excel, the below syntax is used to use the COUNTIF function - 
=COUNTIF(Where do you want to search?, What do you want to search for?)
 OR 
=COUNTIF(range, criteria)
 Where range denotes a range of cells to count, for example, A1:A12 Criteria are used to define the condition that tells the function which cell should be counted, like A2:A5, "John". There are the following criteria in which you can apply the COUNTIF function - Note: COUNTIF function applied for Excel 2000, Excel 2003, Excel 2007, Excel 2010, Excel 2013, Excel 2016, Excel 2019, Excel for Office 365, Excel XP, and Excel 2011 for Mac. COUNTIF function for numeric criteria COUNTIF function for text COUNTIF function with wildcard characters COUNTIF function for blank and non-blank cells COUNTIF function for greater than, less than, or equal to COUNTIF function with the dates COUNTIF function for multiple criteria 1. COUNTIF function for Numeric Criteria COUNTIF function for numeric is used to count cells that are equal to given cells that are greater than or smaller to a given range. Syntax for Numeric Criteria The below formula is used to apply the COUNTIF function for numbers - 
=COUNTIF(B2:B7,"40")
 Steps to use COUNTIF function for Numeric Criteria There are the following steps to use the COUNTIF function in Excel - Step 1: Go to the bottom of the Search bar, type Microsoft Excel on it, and then press Enter key from the keyboard. A Microsoft Excel document will appear on the screen. Step 2: Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a new blank document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse desired file location -> Open button to open your desired existing Microsoft Excel document. Note: In this example, we use a New Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Prepare a list of data in which you want to apply the COUNTIF function. (In our case, data starts from cell B2 and ends in cell B7. See the below screenshot.) Step 4: Place mouse pointer on the cell where you want to apply the COUNTIF function. Type formula =COUNTIF(B2:B7,"40") in the selected cell. (we want to count the number of cells that contains number 40) Step 5: Press the Enter key from the keyboard. The screenshot below shows the result in the selected cell. (In our case, COUNTIF function returns value 2 because the value 40 present twice (cell B2 and B5) in the given data) Method 2: COUNTIF function for text criteria Microsoft Excel also allows us to count the number of cells that contain similar text. Syntax To use the COUNTIF function in the Microsoft Excel, follow the below given syntax: 
=COUNTIF(B1:B9,"String name")
 Steps to use COUNTIF function for text criteria There are the following easiest steps to use the COUNTIF function for text criteria - Step 1: Double click on the Microsoft Excel icon to open the Microsoft Excel document. Step 2: Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a New Excel document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse file location -> Open to open the existing Microsoft Excel document. Note: In our case, we are going to open an existing Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Prepare a list of data on which you want to apply the COUNTIF function. See the screenshot given below. Step 4: Place the cursor in the selected cell and type formula =COUNTIF(B1:B9,"Alice") in the cell, where you want to see the result of the COUNTIF function. Note: In this example, we want to see the occurrence of string Alice in the given data. Step 5: Once the COUNTIF function is completed, press the Enter key from the keyboard. The below-given screenshot shows the result of the COUNTIF function in your selected cell. Method 3: COUNTIF function with wildcard characters Wildcard character includes question mark (?), asterisk (*), and tilde (~) symbols to match the criteria. In Microsoft Excel, asterisk matches zero and more characters. The below syntax is used to apply the COUNTIF function in the Excel document - 
=COUNTIF(B1:B9,"*Alice*")
 Steps to use the COUNTIF function with wildcard characters Step 1: Open a new or an existing Microsoft Excel document in which you want to apply the COUNTIF function. Step 2: Place mouse pointer in the cell and type formula =COUNTIF(B1:B9,"*Alice*") in the selected cell. Step 3: Press the Enter key from the keyboard. You can see that the COUNTIF function returns the cells that contain similar text. Method 4. COUNTIF function for blank and non-blank cells COUNTIF for non-blank cells function is fully automatic, easy to use, time-saving, and also produces the instant result for a given data set. It is used to count numbers or text ranges of any columns without considering the blank cells. Syntax: The below syntax is used to count the number of blank cells in Microsoft Excel - 
=COUNTBLANK(range, )
 The below syntax is used to count non-blank cells in Microsoft Excel - 
=COUNTIF(range,"<>")
 Steps to use the COUNTIF function A list of steps to use the COUNTIF function for blank and non-blank cells is as follows - Step 1: Create a new blank Microsoft Excel document or open a new existing document. Step 2: Place mouse pointer on the cell in which you want to show the result. Step 3: Type or copy-paste the given formula =COUNTBLANK(B2:B9) in your selected cell to see the result of the COUNTIF function. In our case, cell B10 contains the formula. Step 4: Once the COUNTIF formula is completed strike the Enter key from the keyboard. You can see that the result (number of blank rows) will appear in your selected cell. Method 5. COUNTIF function for greater than, less than, or equal to 1. Syntax for greater than 
=COUNTIF(range,">5")
 2. Syntax for greater than equal to 
=COUNTIF(range,">=5")
 3. Syntax for less than 
=COUNTIF(range,"<5")
 4. Syntax for less than equal to 
=COUNTIF(range,"<=5")
 5. Syntax for equal to 
=COUNTIF(range,"=5")
 Steps to apply COUNTIF Function Step 1: Create a new blank Microsoft Excel document or open an existing document. Step 2: Place mouse pointer on the cell in which you want to show the result. Step 3: Type or copy-paste the given formula =COUNTIF(A1:A9,">5") in your selected cell to see the result of the COUNTIF function. (In our case, cell B10 contains the given formula). Note: In this example, we are going to check greater than condition. You can also check other conditions like greater than equal, less than, less than equal to, and equal to based on your requirement. Step 4: Once the COUNTIF formula is completed, strike the Enter key from the keyboard. You can see that the result (number of cells greater than 5) will appear in your desired cell. Method 6: COUNTIF function with the dates Microsoft Excel allows us to count the number of cells that contain date greater than, less than or equal to a specified date as well as current date. Follow the below-given syntax to use the COUNTIF function with dates - 1. Count the cells that contain dates equal to a specified date. 
=COUNTIF(range,"26/5/2020")
 2. Count the cells that contain dates greater than or equal to a specified date. 
=COUNTIF(range,">=26/5/2020")
 3. Count the cells that contain dates less than or equal to a specified date. 
=COUNTIF(range,"<=26/5/2020")
 4. Count the number of cells that contain a date equal to the current date. 
=COUNTIF(range,TODAY())
 5. Count the number of cells that contain a date greater than the current date. 
=COUNTIF(range,">"&TODAY())
 6. Count the number of cells that contain a date greater than the current date. 
=COUNTIF(range,"<"&TODAY())
 Steps to use the COUNTIF function with the dates Step 1: Go to the bottom of the Search bar, type Microsoft Excel on it, and then press Enter key from the keyboard. A Microsoft Excel document will appear on the screen. Step 2: Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a new blank document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse desired file location to open your desired Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Select the cell in which you want to apply the COUNTIF function for dates and type given formula =COUNTIF(C2:C10,"<"&TODAY()) in the selected cell as shown in the screenshot given below. Note: In our case, we are going to count the number of cells that contain dates greater than today. Step 4: Press the Enter key from the keyboard. The screenshot below shows the result in the selected cell. Method 7: COUNTIF function for multiple criteria Microsoft Excel also allows us to use the COUNTIF function for more than one criteria. The below syntax is used to apply the COUNTIF function in an Excel document. 
=COUNTIFS (range1, criteria1, [range2], [criteria2], ...)
 Steps to use the COUNTIF function Step 1: Go to the bottom of the Search bar, type Microsoft Excel on it, and then press Enter key from the keyboard. A Microsoft Excel document will appear on the screen. Step 2: Click on the File -> New -> Blank document -> Create to open a new blank document. Click on the File -> Open -> Browse desired file location to open your desired Microsoft Excel document. Step 3: Select the cell in which you want to apply the COUNTIF function for dates and type given formula =COUNTIFS(B2:B9,"Alice",C2:C9,">15,000") in the selected cell as shown in the screenshot given below. Step 4: Once the formula is completed, press the Enter key from the keyboard. The screenshot below shows the result of the COUNTIF function for multiple criteria. Next TopicHow to import the data from CSV file in Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
