https://www.javatpoint.com/bridge-rectifier
Bridge Rectifier - Javatpoint
Bridge Rectifier - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Bridge Rectifier The bridge rectifier is a circuit that comprises four individual p-n junction diodes, alternating supply, and the load resistor. The four diodes in bridge rectifiers form a closed-loop, which is called a bridge. The bridge rectifier circuit's primary advantage is that it does not require any center tape transformer that reduces its size. The single winding is connected to the input of one side of the bridge. The load resistor to another side of the bridge, as shown below: Its output waveform is similar to the full-wave rectifier. The four diodes' working depends on the positive half and the negative half of the applied input cycle. Let's discuss the construction and working of the bridge rectifier in detail. Construction The diagram of the bridge rectifier includes four diodes. Let name these four diodes as D1, D2, D3, and D4. These four diodes are arranged in the series pairs. Only the two diodes among the four diodes with conduct is every half cycle. The diode D1 and D2 of a bridge rectifier during the positive half cycle are connected in forward bias. Similarly, the diodes D3 and D4 during the negative half cycle are connected in forward biased. Let's first discuss the condition of the p-n junction diode in forward biased and reverse biased. Forward Bias The forward bias state of a diode easily permits the current flow across its terminals. It is due to the presence of the narrow depletion region. The narrow the region, the more easily it will allow the movement of charge carriers from p-region to the n-region. The polarity of a diode with its connection to the alternating input is shown below: It shows that the alternating source's positive end is connected to the positive terminal of the diode. Similarly, the negative end is connected to the negative terminal of the diode. It is defined as the forward bias state of a diode. The current increases with the rise in voltage level when the diode operates in forward bias. The current flow depends on the majority carriers. Reverse bias The reverse bias state of a diode causes the current flow in the reverse direction. It has wide depletion region. The polarity of a diode with its connection to the alternating source is shown below: It shows that the positive end of the alternating source is connected to the diode's negative side. Similarly, the negative end of the alternating source is connected to the positive side of the diode. It is defined as the reverse bias state of a diode. The current flow depends on the minority carriers. The diode in the case of reverse bias generally behaves like an open switch. Working Here, we will discuss the working of the bridge rectifier separately during the positive and negative half cycle. The positive half cycle The diode D1 and D2 become forward biased during the positive half and conducts in series. But, the diodes D3 and D4 become reverse biased. It is due to the polarity of the diode-connected with the alternating supply. The positive voltage is applied to both diodes' positive end and the negative end to the negative terminal of the diode that makes them forward biased. These two diodes conduct and correspond to the resultant output waveform, as shown below: The negative half cycle The diode D3 and D4 become forward biased during the negative half of the input cycle and conducts in series. But, the diodes D1 and D2 become reverse biased and do not conducts. The conduction of the diode D3 and D4 produces the resultant output waveform, as shown below: Similarly, after every positive half and negative half input cycle, the resultant output is produced, as shown below: Bride rectifier Analysis Let's discuss the parameters of the bridge rectifier. 1. Peak Inverse Voltage The PIV (Peak Inverse Voltage) of the bridge rectifier is: Vm. 2. Average and Peak Currents in the diode The forward resistance across the resistor and diode is assumed as RF and RL. The current flowing through the two diodes is: Since two diodes conduct in series, the forward resistance is 2RF. 3. Ideal Peak load current The forward resistance of the ideal diode is considered as zero. Hence, the ideal peak load current is given as: The ideal peak load current is the same of the half wave rectifier, and full wave rectifier. 4. DC Output current It can be calculated as: Substituting the value of Im in the above equation, we get: 5. RMS value of the current The RMS value can be represented as: Substituting the value of Im in the above equation, we get: 6. DC Output voltage The DC output voltage can be represented as: 7. Rectification Efficiency Efficiency = DC power delivered to the load / AC input power from the transformer. The maximum efficiency of a bridge rectifier is twice that of half wave rectifier. It is equal to 81.2%. 8. Ripple Factor The ripple factor of the bridge rectifier can be represented as: It can be expressed in the form of voltage or current. 9. Regulation The percentage regulation can be represented as: Types of Bridge Rectifier There are four types of the bridge rectifier, which are as follows: 1. Single phase Bridge Rectifiers A single phase bridge rectifier comprises of four diodes, as shown below: Single phase rectifiers are used to deliver small power levels. It requires a single phase alternating power supply as the input. 2. Three-phase Bridge Rectifiers Three phase bridge rectifier comprises of six diodes, as shown below: Three phase rectifiers are used to deliver large power levels. It requires three phase alternating power supply as the input. 3. Uncontrolled Bridge Rectifier We know that the diodes are unidirectional. It means that the p-n junction diode can conduct current in a single direction. The configuration of the four diodes of an uncontrolled bridge rectifier is fixed. It does not allow the variation of power. Hence, the common application of such rectifier is to provide a fixed or constant power supply. 4. Controlled Bridge Rectifier The configuration of the controlled bridge rectifier uses solid-state devices instead of diodes. The solid-state devices include MOSFET, SCR, etc., which provide varying power at the output at the load. The output power can be varied by triggering these solid-state devices at various stages. Applications of the Bridge Rectifier The applications of bridge rectifier are as follows: Power supply circuits The lower cost of the bridge rectifiers compared to the center tape rectifiers is preferred as a power supply for the circuits. Welding Most of the welding is performed with machines that produce DC arc. The rectifier is a device that is used to convert the Alternating current arc into a DC arc. It is performed by supplying the polarized voltage. The direct current arc produced is smoother as compared to other rectifiers. Hence, bridge rectifiers are used in the welding process. Modulating radio signals The bridge rectifiers in the modulating radio signals are used for the detection of the amplitude of that particular modulated signal. Advantages of the Bridge rectifier The advantages of bridge rectifier are as follows: No center tape transformer required The bridge rectifier does not require any center tape transformer like half wave and full wave rectifier circuits. It reduces the size of the rectifier circuit. Less Cost The single secondary winding required by the bridge rectifier cost less as compared to other transformers. Voltage conversion Bridge rectifiers can convert the Alternating high voltage to the low DC voltage. The output voltage is not purely DC but a pulsating DC. Higher TUF The bridge rectifiers have high Transformer Utilization factor than center tape transformers. Double rectification The rectification percentage of the bridge rectifier is double as compared to the half-wave rectifier. Disadvantages of the Bridge rectifier The bridge rectifier has only one major disadvantage. It requires four diodes for its construction. It makes the rectifier circuit more complex. It also increases the voltage drop due of the rectifier circuit. The other disadvantages that can arise due to the presence of four diodes are increased loss and lower efficiency. Center tape rectifier vs. Bridge rectifier Center tape rectifier is a type of full wave rectifier. Its function and working are similar to the full wave rectifier. Let's discuss the common differences between the center tape rectifier and the bridge rectifier. Category Bridge Rectifier Center tape rectifier Construction The Bridge rectifier requires four diodes, an instantaneous supply, and a load resistor. Center tape rectifier requires two diodes, center taped transformer, and a load resistor. Transformer It does not require any transformer. It requires a center tape or secondary winding transformer. Transformer Utilization factor 0.810 0.672 Size Smaller than the center tape transformer due to the absence of a transformer. Greater size than the bridge rectifier. Applications Welding, etc. Powering LEDs, motors, etc. Next TopicHalf wave rectifier ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
