https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring/index.htm
Spring Tutorial - Tutorialspoint
Spring Tutorial - Tutorialspoint × Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Net Meeting Tutorix Login Packages Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Library Videos Q/A eBooks Login Library Videos eBooks Spring Core Basics Spring - Home Spring - Overview Spring - Architecture Spring - Environment Setup Spring - Hello World Example Spring - IoC Containers Spring - Bean Definition Spring - Bean Scopes Spring - Bean Life Cycle Spring - Bean Post Processors Spring - Bean Definition Inheritance Spring - Dependency Injection Spring - Injecting Inner Beans Spring - Injecting Collection Spring - Beans Auto-Wiring Annotation Based Configuration Spring - Java Based Configuration Spring - Event Handling in Spring Spring - Custom Events in Spring Spring - AOP with Spring Framework Spring - JDBC Framework Spring - Transaction Management Spring - Web MVC Framework Spring - Logging with Log4J Spring Questions and Answers Spring - Questions and Answers Spring Useful Resources Spring - Quick Guide Spring - Useful Resources Spring - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Spring Tutorial PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion Spring framework is an open source Java platform that provides comprehensive infrastructure support for developing robust Java applications very easily and very rapidly. Spring framework was initially written by Rod Johnson and was first released under the Apache 2.0 license in June 2003. This tutorial has been written based on Spring Framework version 4.1.6 released in Mar 2015. Why to Learn Spring? Spring is the most popular application development framework for enterprise Java. Millions of developers around the world use Spring Framework to create high performing, easily testable, and reusable code. Spring framework is an open source Java platform. It was initially written by Rod Johnson and was first released under the Apache 2.0 license in June 2003. Spring is lightweight when it comes to size and transparency. The basic version of Spring framework is around 2MB. The core features of the Spring Framework can be used in developing any Java application, but there are extensions for building web applications on top of the Java EE platform. Spring framework targets to make J2EE development easier to use and promotes good programming practices by enabling a POJO-based programming model. Applications of Spring Following is the list of few of the great benefits of using Spring Framework ? POJO Based - Spring enables developers to develop enterprise-class applications using POJOs. The benefit of using only POJOs is that you do not need an EJB container product such as an application server but you have the option of using only a robust servlet container such as Tomcat or some commercial product. Modular - Spring is organized in a modular fashion. Even though the number of packages and classes are substantial, you have to worry only about the ones you need and ignore the rest. Integration with existing frameworks - Spring does not reinvent the wheel, instead it truly makes use of some of the existing technologies like several ORM frameworks, logging frameworks, JEE, Quartz and JDK timers, and other view technologies. Testablity - Testing an application written with Spring is simple because environment-dependent code is moved into this framework. Furthermore, by using JavaBeanstyle POJOs, it becomes easier to use dependency injection for injecting test data. Web MVC - Spring's web framework is a well-designed web MVC framework, which provides a great alternative to web frameworks such as Struts or other over-engineered or less popular web frameworks. Central Exception Handling - Spring provides a convenient API to translate technology-specific exceptions (thrown by JDBC, Hibernate, or JDO, for example) into consistent, unchecked exceptions. Lightweight - Lightweight IoC containers tend to be lightweight, especially when compared to EJB containers, for example. This is beneficial for developing and deploying applications on computers with limited memory and CPU resources. Transaction management - Spring provides a consistent transaction management interface that can scale down to a local transaction (using a single database, for example) and scale up to global transactions (using JTA, for example). Audience This tutorial is designed for Java programmers with a need to understand the Spring framework in detail along with its architecture and actual usage. This tutorial will bring you at an intermediate level of expertise, from where you can take yourself to higher levels of expertise. Prerequisites Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a good understanding of Java programming language. A basic understanding of Eclipse IDE is also required because all the examples have been compiled using Eclipse IDE. Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact © Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved.
