https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-resistors
Types of Resistors - Javatpoint
Types of Resistors - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Types of Resistors Resistors are the most common and widely used components in electronic circuits, devices, and equipment. Due to widespread use, there is a wide range of resistors with different characteristics. Although most resistors work in various applications, it is always recommended to obtain the right type of resistor based on the specific requirement to achieve maximum performance. But first, we must know about the different resistors and their significant characteristics. In this article, we are discussing the different types of resistors. Before discussing various resistor types, let us first go through a resistor's definition and the circuit symbols used to represent it. What is a Resistor? A resistor refers to a device or a component designed primarily to obstruct the electric current flow. It is known as the passive two-terminal device that helps regulate current-flow. A resistor typically has a particular amount of resistance through which it opposes or limits the electric current passing across it. According to the laws of resistance, the resistance (R) of any resistor directly depends on its resistivity (?), length (l), and cross-sectional area (a), i.e. 
R = ? (l/a)
 In electronic circuits, resistors are also utilized for various other requirements, such as adjusting signal levels, reducing current flow, active bias elements, terminating transmission lines, dividing voltages, etc. Otis Frank Boykin first introduced a resistor in 1959. Glass, mica, wood, rubber, etc., are some examples of resistant materials. Note: Resistance is one of the critical factors used in electrical and electronic circuits. Resistance is the property of materials to resist the flow of electricity, and Ohm's Law governs it. The unit of resistance is OHM (?), where 1? = 1V/1A. Symbols of Resistor There are mainly two different circuit symbols of resistors. One of both symbols is the oldest circuit symbol used for resistors and is mostly used in North America. This particular symbol consists of a zigzag line that indicates the wire used in resistors. The other symbol consists of a small rectangular shape instead of a jagged line. This second resistor circuit symbol is often called the international circuit symbol of a resistor and is used widely in Asia and Europe. Types of Resistors There are many different types of resistors used in various electronic components. Each one has its characteristics, applications, and specific advantages. Various resistors vary in their construction, sizes, shapes, power dissipation capability, and tolerance levels to different parameters. However, the most common types of resistors are broadly divided into the following two categories: Linear Resistor Non-Linear Resistor Let us understand each type in details: 1. Linear Resistors Linear resistors are the type of resistors in which the value fluctuates based on the applied temperatures and voltages. Most of the resistors are linear, and they produce voltage drops when an electric current flows across them. On the other side, linear resistors are also defined as resistors in which the current value is directly proportional to the voltage applied across them. Linear resistors are further sub-divided into the following two types: Fixed Resistor Variable Resistor A) Fixed Resistors Fixed resistors are the most common type of resistors. These resistors are mainly used in electronic circuits to configure the right conditions within the circuits. One of the main characteristics of fixed resistors is that their value is fixed (constant resistance value) and cannot be changed. The values in fixed resistors are determined in the designing phase of their circuits. A wide range of resistor materials is used for manufacturing fixed resistors. Moreover, resistors' material decides the resistor properties such as tolerance, cost, noise, use, etc. Fixed resistors are mainly classified into the following four types: (i) Thin Film Resistor Thin resistors are composed using a high grid ceramic rod and resistive materials. A thin layer of resistive material is coated onto the insulating substrate, such as an insulating rod, tube, or plate made up of a high ceramic substance or a glass. The resistive element for thin-film resistors is about 1000 angstroms. These resistors are best known for the better temperature coefficients, low parasitic inductance, lower capacitance, and low noise. Thin-film resistors are mostly used for microwave active/passive power elements, including power resistors, power terminations, and power attenuators. Furthermore, these resistors are suitable for applications requiring higher accuracy and stability. Thin Film Resistor has the following types: Carbon Film Resistor: These are resistors with an insulating material rod and are formed using a high-quality ceramic material called the substrate. A relatively thin layer of resistive carbon is used around the rod. Because of very low noise and wide operating range, carbon film resistors are mainly used in electric circuits. Moreover, they are more stable than solid-carbon resistors. Metal Film Resistor: In terms of construction, the metal-thin resistors are similar to the carbon film resistors. However, these resistors use metals instead of carbon. Sometimes, metal thin resistors can have metal oxide, nickel-chromium, or metals and glass composition. The mixture of metal and glass is known as a metal glaze and acts as a resistive film. These resistors are cheap, tiny, and reliable. Metal film resistors are used widely in applications that require stability with low noise. (ii) Thick Film Resistor The manufacturing process of thick film resistors is almost the same as the thin film resistors. The only noticeable difference is that there is a thick film or a layer in thick film resistors instead of a thin film used in thin-film resistors. The film used in these resistors is thousands of thicker than thin film. Furthermore, the thick film resistors are composed using a mixture of ceramics and powdered glass. These resistors have better tolerance levels (nearly 1-2 %) and temperature coefficient (lies between -200 to -25 and +200 to +250). Like thin film resistors, thick film resistors are also available at low cost. Thick Film Resistor has the following types: Fusible Resistor: As the name suggests, fusible resistors are the type of resistors that may get fused if a circuit power rating increases above the particular value. In such a case, these resisters typically break or open the entire circuit. These resistors are mainly used in televisions, amplifiers, and many other expensive electronic circuits. The fusible resistors generally come with an ohmic value which is less than 10 Ohms. Cermet Film Resistor: The cermet film resistors are made up by wrapping a carbon or metal alloy layer around the ceramic insulation materials. The internal area consists of ceramic materials, while the outer area is fixed in ceramic metal, known as Cermet. These resistors are usually produced in a rectangular and square shape. Furthermore, the pins are installed under the resistor and attached with the printed circuit board placed inside the resistor. Cermet film resistors are best known for their stable performance in high temperatures as their values do not typically vary with temperatures. Metal Oxide Resistor: Metal oxide resistors are made up by oxidizing a thick film or Tin Chloride layer on a heated glass rod (substrate). These types of resistors are manufactured with various resistance ranges and are suitable for high temperatures. That is why the metal oxide resistors can be used at high voltages, neglecting or reducing noise. (iii) Carbon Composition Resistor Carbon composition resistors are composed using a mixture of carbon granules and binder elements. The arrangement is structured in a shape of a small rod. But these resistors are comparatively large compared to the other resistors. Besides, the carbon composition resistors suffer from a large negative temperature coefficient. When the current flows across these resistors, they produce relatively more noise than the other resistors. In particular, carbon composition resistors are an older type of resistors that were very common before the manufacture of today's standard resistors. (iv) Wire-wound Resistor Wire-wound resistors are composed by winding the higher resistance wire around the general resistance. These resistors have metallic bodies to help them in heat-sink mounting. This means these resistors may become too hot during the operations, and therefore, they are housed around finned metalcore. Moreover, wire-wound resistors are best known for higher power ratings and low resistive values. B) Variable Resistors Unlike fixed resistors, the resistance value in variable resistors can be adjusted accordingly. Most variable resistors are controlled using a dial, knob, screw, or manually by appropriate mechanical movements (usually linear and rotary). The variable resistors contain fixed resistor components and a sliding arm that typically taps onto the main resistor component. This eventually adds three connections to the device, such as- one connection linked to the slider and two connections attached with the fixed component. Doing so makes the device act as a variable resistor when all three connections are in use. Variable resistors are mainly classified into the following three types: (i) Potentiometer A potentiometer refers to a three-terminal device designed for adjusting the voltage-levels in circuits. In this arrangement, the resistance remains constant between the two terminals. Moreover, the third terminal is attached with moving contact (called the Wiper), which is again connected to the control shaft. The wiper can be rotated to arrange the value of resistance accordingly. These resistors are also sometimes called variable composition resistors. (ii) Rheostat Rheostats can be either two-terminal or three-terminal devices designed mainly to limit the current with manual operations. Rheostats are manufactured by wire-winding Nichrome resistance around ceramic rod assembled further in a protective shell in terms of construction. These resistors are also called variable wound resistors or tapped resistors. (iii) Trimmer Resistor An additional screw attached with a potentiometer or variable resistors resulting in better operations and efficiency is the type of trimmer resistor. The main advantage of these resistors is that their resistance value can be arranged by changing (rotating) the screw position. These resistors are generally composed of carbon film, carbon composition, cermet, wire materials, etc. 2. Non-Linear Resistors No-linear resistors are resistors in which the current flowing through them changes only with the change in applied voltage or the temperature. These resistors typically do not follow Ohm's Law, and the current flowing through resistors does not change according to it. Non-Linear resistors are further sub-divided into the following types: Thermistor Thermistors are those types of resistors in which the resistance changes significantly with the change in temperatures. These resistors are heat-sensitive two-terminal devices. The resistance of these resistors is inversely proportional to the given temperature. Although there are many thermistors, the two most common ones are NTC and PTC thermistors. NTC thermistors have a negative temperature coefficient, and their resistance decreases when the temperature increases. Besides, PTC thermistors are a positive temperate coefficient, and their resistance increases when the temperature increases. Thermistors are primarily used as thermal protection components or temperature sensors. Photo Resistor/ LDR LDR is a short form of Light Dependent Resistors. They are also termed photoresistors. These are resistors in which the resistance changes with the level of light. Furthermore, the resistance significantly decreases when the intensity of incident light increases. These resistors find their use in various sensor applications and are considered a cost-effective solution. They are most commonly used to differentiate light or dark situations. They help to turn on street lights in the evening automatically. Although photoresistors are cheap and easy to assemble in circuits, they sometimes lag in the time required to respond to light change situations. Varistor Resistor When the term 'varistor' is divided, it gives an idea of two different terms, such as 'varying' and 'resistor'. In simple words, varistors are the type of resistors that can vary their resistance according to the applied voltage. That is the reason these resistors are best suited for spike and surge protection. Varistors contain non-linear resistance, which is entirely dependent on the voltage applied across the varistor. Once the voltage reaches a specific threshold limit, the varistor's resistance drops at a faster speed. It is important to note here that each time the varistor has a spike, the properties may change slightly. There are many types of varistor; however, MOV (metal oxide varistor) is the most common and widely used form of the varistor. Surface Mount Resistors Surface-mount resistors, also called SMD in short, are manufactured in different package sizes and structures. However, their most common shape is a rectangular shape. These resistors are usually composed by depositing a film of resistive material. Because these resistors are relatively small, they don't have sufficient space for color-code bands. However, they contain a three-number unique code that works similarly to color code bands designed on wire-ended resistors. SMD resistors are mainly developed to be used with surface mount technology (SMT). SMD resistors are best known for providing high-level performance. Applications of Resistor Based on the requirements, a different type of resistor is used. Both types of resistors (such as linear and non-linear) are used widely for specific purposes. The following are some most common applications of resistors: Controlling and configuring limits for electric current Converting electrical energy into heat energy Controlling the temperate in electrical circuits and components Controlling voltage or Drop Implementing in a Voltmeter as a multiplier For testing, research, and practicals in laboratories Implementing in Ampere meters as a shunt Adding as an additional layer of protection against fuses Next TopicAuthentication Vs. Authorization ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
