https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-process-memory-usage
Linux Process Memory Usage - javatpoint
Linux Process Memory Usage - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Linux Process Memory Usage Determining the program often needs detecting the memory usage of the system, which consumes all CPU resources or the program which is responsible for slowing down the CPU's activities. Tracing process memory usage is essential in order to specify the load on the server. By parsing usage data, the servers can balance the load without slowing down the system and serving the user's request. Commands Used to Check the Process Memory Usage in Linux There are various commands to check process memory usage in Linux: 1. Free This command shows the amount of memory that is presently available and used by the system for both swapped as well as physical. The free command collects this data via parsing/proc/meminfo. By default, the amount of memory is shown in kilobytes. If we want to execute the program periodically, then we can use the watch command. Syntax: 
Watch -n 7 free -m
 According to the above image, there is 3842 MB RAM and 7628 MB of swap space allotted to the Linux system. Out of 3852 MB RAM, 678 MB is presently used; however, 2373 MB is free. Correspondingly for swap space, out of 7628 MB, 0 MB is used, and 7628 MB is free presently in the system. 2. vmstat If we want to display the virtual memory statistics of the system, then we can use the vmstat command. This command display data related to the memory, disk, paging, CPU activities etc. When we use this command the first time, then this returns averages of data since the last reboot. The next use returns the data according to the sampling periods of the length delay. 
vmstat -d // Reports disk statistics
 
vmstat -s // shows the amount of memory that is used and available
 3. Top The top command is used to show all the processes presently running in the system. The top command shows the list of thread and processes which are presently being managed by the kernel. In order to monitor the total amount of memory usage we can also use this command. 
Top -H Threads-mode operation
This will show each thread hat present in the system. If we do not use this command option, then the summation of every thread in each process is shown.
 4. /proc/meminfo This file includes all the data related to the usage of memory. It provides you the detail of current memory usage instead of the old stored values. 5. htop It is an interactive process viewer. The Htop command is the same as top command except that we can scroll horizontally and vertically in order to permit users to view each process running on the system, with their full command line and viewing them as a tree of process, choosing processes and act on them all at once. Next TopicLinux Tree Command ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
