https://www.javatpoint.com/brs-vs-srs
BRS vs SRS - javatpoint
BRS vs SRS - javatpoint ? Home Software Testing Compiler Java COA Computer Network HTML CSS Selenium Servlet JSP jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Software Testing Tutorial Software Testing Principles Software Development Life Cycle Software Testing Life Cycle Types of Software Testing SDLC models Waterfall model Spiral Model Hybrid Model Prototype Model V-model Types of Testing Manual Testing Automation Testing Types of Manual White Box Testing Black Box Testing Grey Box Testing White Box Techniques Data Flow Testing Control Flow Testing Branch Coverage Testing Statement Coverage Testing Decision Coverage Testing Black Box Techniques Decision Table All-pair Testing Cause-Effect Testing State Transition Use Case Types of Black Box Functional Testing Non-Functional Testing Types of Functional Unit Testing Integration Testing System Testing Types of Non-functional Performance Testing Usability Testing Compatibility Testing Test case development Testing Documentation Test Scenario Test Case Testing Techniques Error Guessing Equivalence Portioning Boundary Value analysis Test Management Test Plan Test case review process Requirement Traceability Matrix Defect Tracking Bug in Software Testing Bug Life cycle Severity & Priority Test Environment Other types of Testing Regression Testing Smoke Testing Sanity Testing Static Testing Dynamic Testing Load Testing Stress Testing Recovery testing Exploratory Testing Visual Testing Acceptance Testing Alpha Testing Beta Testing Database Testing Mainframe Testing Adhoc Testing Globalization Testing Mutation Testing Security Testing Accessibility Testing Structural Testing Volume Testing Scalability Testing Stability Testing Spike Testing Negative Testing Positive Testing Software Testing Tools Software testing tools Test management tools Defect/Bug tracking tools Automation testing tools Performance testing tools Cross-browser testing tools Integration testing tools Unit testing tools Mobile Testing Tools GUI testing tools Security testing tools Penetration Testing Tools Differences Automation Testing vs Manual Testing Load Testing vs Stress Testing Smoke Testing vs Sanity Testing System Testing vs Acceptance Testing Quality Assurance vs Quality Control Static Testing vs Dynamic Testing Verification vs Validation Testing Alpha Testing vs Beta Testing Black Box vs. White Box vs. Grey Box Testing Globalization Testing vs Localization Testing Test Case vs Test Scenarios Test Plan vs Test Strategy Boundary value analysis vs Equivalence partitioning SDLC vs STLC Bug vs Defect vs Error vs Fault vs Failure Testing vs Debugging Frontend Testing vs Backend Testing HLD vs LLD BRS vs SRS Positive Testing vs Negative Testing Software Testing MCQ Software Testing MCQ Interview Questions Software Testing Interview next ? ? prev BRS vs SRS In this section, we are going to discuss the difference between BRS and SRS and see a brief introduction between them. The BRS and SRS are the most important documents to develop any project or software. These types of the document contain the in-depth details of the particular software. In software testing, BRS and SRS types of document requirements depend upon business type, their standards, how company processes, and what class of software is to be developed. Before we understood the difference between BRS and SRS, we will look into the difference between requirement and specification. Requirement vs Specification In the below table, we have made a comparison between requirement and specification. Requirement Specification They plan the software from the end-user, business, and stakeholder perspectives. They prepare the software from the technical team's point of view. The requirements define what the software must do. The specification defines how the software will be developed. Some of the common terminologies used for requirement document are as follows: SRD: System Requirement Document BRD: Business Requirement Document Some of the common terminologies used for specification document are as follows: FRS: Functional Requirement Specifications SRS: System Requirement Specifications CRS: Configurations Requirements Specification PRS: Performance Requirements Specifications RRS: Reliability Requirements Specifications CRS: Compatibility Requirements Specifications Now, let's see a brief introduction to BRS and SRS documents. What is BRS? The BRS document stands for Business Requirement Specification. To create the BRS document, the Business analyst will interrelate with the customers. The BRS document includes the business rules, the project's scope, and in-detail client's requirements. In this type of document, the client describes how their business works or the software they need. For the CRS, the details will be written in the simple business (English) language by the BA (business analyst), which developers and the test engineers cannot understand. What is SRS? The SRS document stands for Software Requirement Specification. In this document, the Business Analyst will collect the Customer Requirement Specifications (CRS) from the client and translate them into Software Requirement Specification (SRS). The SRS contains how the software should be developed and given by the Business Analyst (BA). In other words, we can say that the SRS document is used to covert the customer information into a detailed document, which can easily understand by the developers and the test engineers. Characteristic of Software Requirement Specification Some important features of the SRS document are as below: The SRS document is used to determine the early cost of the software product. It is helpful to links the gap between the developer and the user. Software requirement specification works as an agreement between communicating parties. The Key difference between BRS and SRS documents The below facts explain the vital differences between BRS and SRS documents: SRS represented as System Requirement Specification while BRS represented as Business Requirement Specification. SRS defines the functional and non-functional needs of the software; on the other hand, BRS is a formal document, which specifies the needs given by the customer. The SRS document is developed by the SA (System Architect); on the other hand, the BRS is generally developed by the BA (Business Analyst). SRS is obtained from the BRS, whereas BRS is acquired from customer statements and their business needs. Difference between BRS vs SRS The below comparison table enlightens their significant differences between SRS and BRS in a quick manner: S.NO. BRS (Business Requirement Specification) SRS (Software Requirement Specification) 1. It is a document that describes the requirements of the client using the non-technical expression. It determines the specifications of a software product more formally. 2. It prepares the report of the user connections. It specifies how the clients communicate with the system with the help of use cases. 3. In the BRS document, it is not important to contain the references of figures and tables. It always includes references to illustrations and tables. 4. The BRS document is obtained from relating to the client's requirements and taking responsibility for them. The Software Requirement Specification obtain from the Business Requirement specification. 5. The BRS document involved the product's future scope, keeping in mind the organization's strategies for development plans. The SRS document does not involve the scope of the product. 6. In the BRS document, all the client's requirements complete in all the details are together and accessible. SRS document describes the stepwise sequence of all the operations characteristics for each module and sub-modules. 7. The BRS Document is prepared by a team of Business Analysts (BA) who interacts with the clients. The SRS document is created by a team of System Analysts (SA), a technical expert. 8. It defines, at a very high level, which includes the functional conditions of the application. It specifies at a high level where the functional and technical requirements of the application are included. 9. The BRS documents cover all types of requirements. The SRS documents cover all functional and non-functional requirements. 10. The BRS document lists the user base along with similar stakeholders from the client-side. The SRS document doesn't list anyone from the client or user base. Conclusion In this section, we have made a comparison between BRS and SRS documents. Finally, we can conclude that the programmers used both the documents in the development process and for the testing process. The Business Requirement Specification (BRS) is a formal document that specifics the customer's requirement, written or verbal. Simultaneously, the Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document defines the functional and non-functional needs of the software to be established. Next TopicPositive Testing vs Negative Testing ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
