https://www.javatpoint.com/docker-tutorial
Learn Docker Tutorial - javatpoint
Learn Docker Tutorial - javatpoint ? Home Docker C C++ C# Java PHP Python Ruby Perl Scala Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Docker Tutorial Docker Tutorial Docker Features Docker architecture Installation on Ubuntu Installation on Windows Docker Image & Container Docker Dockerfile Docker Java Example Docker Php Example Docker Python Example Docker Scala Example Docker Perl Example Docker Ruby Example Docker Swift Example Docker Ubuntu Example Docker Push Repository Docker Useful Commands Docker Cloud Docker Compose Docker Storage Driver Docker vs Kubernetes next ? Docker Tutorial Docker Tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of Docker. Our Docker Tutorial is designed for both beginners as well as professionals. Docker is a centralized platform for packaging, deploying, and running applications. Before Docker, many users face the problem that a particular code is running in the developer's system but not in the user's system. So, the main reason to develop docker is to help developers to develop applications easily, ship them into containers, and can be deployed anywhere. Docker was firstly released in March 2013. It is used in the Deployment stage of the software development life cycle that's why it can efficiently resolve issues related to the application deployment. What is Docker? Docker is an open-source centralized platform designed to create, deploy, and run applications. Docker uses container on the host's operating system to run applications. It allows applications to use the same Linux kernel as a system on the host computer, rather than creating a whole virtual operating system. Containers ensure that our application works in any environment like development, test, or production. Docker includes components such as Docker client, Docker server, Docker machine, Docker hub, Docker composes, etc. Let's understand the Docker containers and virtual machine. Docker Containers Docker containers are the lightweight alternatives of the virtual machine. It allows developers to package up the application with all its libraries and dependencies, and ship it as a single package. The advantage of using a docker container is that you don't need to allocate any RAM and disk space for the applications. It automatically generates storage and space according to the application requirement. Virtual Machine A virtual machine is a software that allows us to install and use other operating systems (Windows, Linux, and Debian) simultaneously on our machine. The operating system in which virtual machine runs are called virtualized operating systems. These virtualized operating systems can run programs and preforms tasks that we perform in a real operating system. Containers Vs. Virtual Machine Containers Virtual Machine Integration in a container is faster and cheap. Integration in virtual is slow and costly. No wastage of memory. Wastage of memory. It uses the same kernel, but different distribution. It uses multiple independent operating systems. Why Docker? Docker is designed to benefit both the Developer and System Administrator. There are the following reasons to use Docker - Docker allows us to easily install and run software without worrying about setup or dependencies. Developers use Docker to eliminate machine problems, i.e. "but code is worked on my laptop." when working on code together with co-workers. Operators use Docker to run and manage apps in isolated containers for better compute density. Enterprises use Docker to securely built agile software delivery pipelines to ship new application features faster and more securely. Since docker is not only used for the deployment, but it is also a great platform for development, that's why we can efficiently increase our customer's satisfaction. Advantages of Docker There are the following advantages of Docker - It runs the container in seconds instead of minutes. It uses less memory. It provides lightweight virtualization. It does not a require full operating system to run applications. It uses application dependencies to reduce the risk. Docker allows you to use a remote repository to share your container with others. It provides continuous deployment and testing environment. Disadvantages of Docker There are the following disadvantages of Docker - It increases complexity due to an additional layer. In Docker, it is difficult to manage large amount of containers. Some features such as container self -registration, containers self-inspects, copying files form host to the container, and more are missing in the Docker. Docker is not a good solution for applications that require rich graphical interface. Docker provides cross-platform compatibility means if an application is designed to run in a Docker container on Windows, then it can't run on Linux or vice versa. Docker Engine It is a client server application that contains the following major components. A server which is a type of long-running program called a daemon process. The REST API is used to specify interfaces that programs can use to talk to the daemon and instruct it what to do. A command line interface client. Prerequisite Before learning Docker, you must have the fundamental knowledge of Linux and programming languages such as java, php, python, ruby, etc. Audience Our Docker Tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problem We assure that you will not find any difficulty while learning our Docker tutorial. But if there any mistake, kindly post the problem in the contact form. Next TopicDocker Features next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
