https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-a-cell-in-excel
What is a cell in Excel - javatpoint
What is a cell in Excel - javatpoint ? Home Excel MS Word PowerPoint C C# Java PHP HTML SQL PL/SQL Python Web Services Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training MS Excel Tutorial Excel Tutorial Workbook Window Create & Open Workbooks MS Excel Online Excel vs Google Sheets Office Button Ribbon and Tabs Features of Tabs Quick Access Toolbar Mini Toolbar Title, Help, Zoom, View Excel Worksheet Worksheet, Row, Column Moving on Worksheet Enter Data Select Data Delete Data Move Data Copy Paste Data Spell Check Insert Symbols Excel Calculation Addition Sigma Addition Subtraction Calculate Average Sigma Average Excel Fill Handle Fill Handle Fill Handle with Text Text with Numbers Fill Handle with Dates Excel Formula Create Formula Fill Handle in Formula Relative Referencing Absolute Referencing Instruction for Typing Quick Excel Functions Excel IF If Function If with Calculations Excel COUNTIF Advanced If Excel Advanced Excel Macros Excel sumif Excel vlookup What is Pivot Table Excel ISNA Find & Remove Duplicates Create drop-down List Merge cells in Excel Misc How to enable macros in excel How to calculate age in Excel How to create a Pivot Table in excel How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel How to Freeze Cells in Excel What-if Analysis in Excel How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel How To Insert PDF in MS Excel How to change the Date Format in Excel How to compare two Excel sheet How To Apply Filter In Excel How To Move Columns In Excel How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel How to calculate Mean in Excel How to Separate text in Excel How to recover a macro in Excel How to recover a Corrupted Excel file How to recover an Excel file How to remove comma in Excel How to sum a column in Excel How to remove the filter in Excel How to remove gridlines in Excel How To Convert Excel To CSV How To Create Table in Excel How to Calculate IRR in Excel How to Count Characters in Excel How to Make an Excel Sheet How to Replace Words in Excel How to Sort by Date in Excel How to hide formulas in Excel How to subtract in excel How to use the IF function in Excel How To Create A Graph In Excel How to use concatenate in Excel How to spell check in Excel How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel How to Create a Dashboard in Excel How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel How to use sumifs formula in Excel How to add page break in Excel How to remove the page break in Excel How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel How to Convert Number to Words in Excel How to Make a Table in Excel How to Put Tick Mark in Excel How to Remove Passwords from Excel File How to Wrap Text in Excel How to insert comments in Excel How to add/remove Password from Excel How to use MS Excel How to sort in Excel How to record a macro in Excel How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 How to Search in Excel How to add a text box in Excel How to save Excel document How to set background image in Excel How to use COUNTIF function in Excel How to import the data from CSV file in Excel How to unlock scroll lock in Excel What is a cell in Excel Uses of MS Excel Shortcut Keys Excel Shortcut Keys Interview Questions Excel Interview HR Interview SQL Interview PL/SQL Interview next ? ? prev What is a cell in Excel? A cell is an essential part of MS-Excel. It is an object of Excel worksheets. Whenever you open Excel, the Excel worksheet contains cells to store the information in them. You enter content and your data into these cells. Cells are the building blocks of the Excel worksheet. So, you should know every single point about it. In the Excel worksheet, a cell is a rectangular-shaped box. It is a small unit of the Excel spreadsheet. There are around 17 billion cells in an Excel worksheet, which are united together in horizontal and vertical lines. An Excel worksheet contains cells in rows and columns. Rows are labeled as numbers and columns as alphabets. It means the rows are identified by numbers and columns by alphabets. Which data can enter into cell Excel consists of a group of cells in a worksheet. You can enter data in any of these cells. Excel allows the user to enter any type of data in Excel cells, such as numeric, text, date, and time data. Whatever you enter in a cell, it appears inside the cell and as well as in the formula bar. Double-tap on any of a cell to make it editable and write the data in it. In Excel, you can enter any type of data in Excel cells, such as number, string, text, date, time, etc. In addition, the users can also perform operations on it. How to identify cell number? In Excel, you can easily identify the cell number you are currently in. You can either find the cell number inside the Name box or also from row and column headers. The highlighted row and column in the header is the cell number when a cell is selected. See the screenshot below: Else see the cell number inside the Name box of the currently selected cell and get the cell number, e.g., D15. Enter data into the cell To enter the data/information into a cell, double-tap on any cell to make it editable and write the data in it. Let's understand with an example. Delete cell data Select the cell along with data inside it and either press Backspace or Delete button to delete the content of the cell. It will delete one letter at a time means 1 tap backspace/delete will delete only one letter of that cell. You can also delete cell data in one go. For this, select the cell data and then either press the Backspace or Delete button. The selected cell content will be deleted. You can also use this Delete button to delete the content of multiple cells. For this, you have to select cells with data whose data you want to delete and press the Delete key on your keyboard. The data of the selected cells will be deleted. Delete cell There is a huge difference between deleting the cell data or deleting a cell itself. So, don't be confused between them. To delete the cells, you have to perform a bit different steps, as we are discussing below: Step 1: Select one or more cells, which you want to delete. E.g., A3, A4, and B3, B4. Step 2: Right-click any of the selected cells and click on the Delete command present inside the list. Step 3: Mark the relevant radio button and click on the OK button. We have chosen to Shift cells up option to shift the remaining cells data of the selected column to the upper row. Step 4: The selected cells will be deleted and the remaining cells will shift up at the place of deleted cells. Cell range Cell range is one, which has a starting and ending point. When the multiple cells are selected in a sequence, it is called as cell range. Cell range shows from start cell to end cell. Selected cells must be in sequence without any gap in selection. For example, Cell range A1:A8 Cell A1 to A8 is selected in this range. It means that total 8 cells are selected. Cell range A1:B8 Cell A1 to A8 and B1 to B8 are selected in this cell range. It means that total 16 cells are selected. How to select multiple cells Sometimes, there is a need to select a large range of cell data in an Excel sheet. You can easily select a larger group of cells or a cell range in two ways. Either with mouse or shift and arrow key. 1. Continues selection Firstly, we will show you a contiguous selection of multiple cells using both methods. Select cells with mouse Click on a cell, hold the mouse left key and drag until you got select all needed cells. Select cells with Shift and arrow key There is one more way selecting multiple cells at one time. You can use the Shift key with arrow keys (choose direction) to select multiple cells. Firstly, click on one cell in the Excel worksheet. Keep pressing the shift key and use the required arrow key with it according to selection to select the multiple cells. 2. Scattered selection Excel also allows to select multiple cells from different rows and columns without following any contiguous selection range process as above. We can do it only using the Ctrl key. Select scattered cells with the CTRL key Excel provides a way to select two or more cells of different rows and different columns. You can use the CTRL key to hold the selection and then choose the cells to select. Remember that only those cells will be selected which has some data. Blank cells cannot be selected even using the Ctrl key. Cut, copy, and paste the cells data Cut, copy, and paste are the most used operations of every tool. Excel allows its users to copy or cut the content from one place and paste it to another cell in Excel. Excel also provides shortcut commands for these operations. CTRL + C for copy, CTRL + P for paste the copied content, and CTRL + X for cut is used in Excel. These shortcut keys are the same for almost every tool. Copy and paste the cell data Step 1: Select the cell whose data you want to copy and press the CTRL+C command to copy the data. Step 2: Now, go to that where you want to paste the copied data and press the CTRL+P shortcut command to place the data there. Step 3: Your data has been copied from one cell and pasted to another one. Cut and paste the cell data Step 1: Select the cell whose data you want to cut and press the CTRL+X command. Step 2: Now, go to the cell where you want to paste the cut data and press the CTRL+P shortcut command to place the data there. Step 3: Your data has been placed from one cell and pasted to another one. How to increase the size of cell In Excel, you can increase the size of cells in following ways: Increase the height of the row from row header Increase the width of the column from column header Merge the two or more cells to enhance the cell size Increase the font size to make the cell bigger You can use any of these methods accordingly as needed. Next TopicUses of MS Excel ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
