https://www.javatpoint.com/best-linux-distro
Best Linux Distro - javatpoint
Best Linux Distro - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Best Linux Distro Linux Distro Introduction Linux distro is a Linux distribution. It is an operating system created using a collection of software that is based on the package management system and Linux kernel. Usually, Linux users obtain the OS by downloading any Linux distribution. These distributions are available for several systems ranging from personal computers such as Linux Mint and embedded devices. A common Linux distribution combines GNU libraries and tools, Linux kernel, additional software, a window system (commonly X Window System), documentation, a desktop environment, a window manager. Most of the added software is open-source and free software made available as compiled in source code and binaries form, permitting modification to the real software. Optionally, Linux distribution commonly includes a few proprietary software that might not exists in source code form like binary blobs needed for a few device drivers. A Linux distro may also be defined in a specific assortment of utility software (several GNU libraries and tools) and applications, grouped using the Linux kernel in a way that the capabilities meet the users requirements Usually, the software is accommodated to the distribution and after that grouped into several software packages through the maintainers of the distribution. Many software packages are present online in the repositories. These repositories are storage places usually distributed across the world. Some glue components like package management systems or distribution installers (such as Anaconda and Debian-Installer), there are only some packages that are written through the ground up by various Linux distribution's maintainers. There are almost 1000+ Linux distribution is available. The distributions have taken a huge range of forms due to the large availability of software including those compatible with use on netbooks, laptops, servers, desktops, tablets, and mobile phones. There are also commercial-backed distributions available such as Ubuntu(Canonical Ltd.), OpenSUSE (SUSE), and Fedora (Red Hat), and completely community-driven distributions like Arch Linux, Gentoo, Slackware, and Debian. Trends and Types of Distros In large terms, Linux distros can be: Non-commercial or commercial Developed for home users, power users, enterprise users Supported over various kinds of hardware and platform-specific to the certification extent by a platform vendor Developed for embedded devices, desktops, servers. Highly specialized or general-purpose to the specific functionality of the machine (for example, computer clusters, network routers, and firewalls) Targeted at particular user groups such as by language localization and internationalization, or by adding various scientific computing or music production packages Primarily, built for usability, comprehensiveness, portability, or security Rolling release or extended-release The multiplicity of Linux distributions is because of philosophical, organizational, and technical variations among users and vendors. The free software permissive licensing defines that a user with enough interest and knowledge can personalize an existing distribution or develops one to match their requirements. Best Linux Distros for Newcomers For beginners who wish quick access to a large variety of apps/software and Linux without Using the command-line. For these kinds of users we would suggest: 1. Manjaro: A desktop-oriented and user-friendly OS based on Arch Linux. Some of the key aspects include extensive desktop configurability, unique Bash scripts to manage graphics drivers, and the ability for installing multiple Kernels. It also includes a consistent rolling-release model, automatic hardware detection, and an intuitive installation process. 2. Ubuntu: A full desktop Linux OS. It is freely available along with the large community support of a Distro. Ubuntu facilitates a download page that is beginner-friendly and comes with the large text. It focuses on the most essential things for beginners like a live USB guide, system requirements, and other guides on switching from Mac or Windows. 3. Pop!_OS: It is an Ubuntu-based Linux distribution providing a GNOME desktop (custom). A Linux computer retailer (system76), improves this Linux distro. This Linux distribution makes the list due to they have moved out of their way for ensuring that Pop!_OS is beginner-friendly as it offers to provide an improving help article list and 100's of information. 4. Linux Mint: Linux Mint is a Ubuntu-based Linux distribution. Its objective is to facilitate a full out-of-the-box experience by adding media codecs, browser plug-ins, support for Java, playback, DVD, and other elements. It also includes custom menus and desktop options, several specific configuration tools, and an installation interface for web-based packages. This Linux distribution is compatible with various repositories of Ubuntu software. Best Linux Distros for Capable Users The below Distros are very same as the above Distros. The default install however doesn't provide a lot of cool bloats. It needs a bit more research and customization. It should not be frustrating and difficult but rather satisfying. 1. Fedora: It is formerly known as Fedora Core. It is a type of Linux distribution designed by the community-supported Fedora Project. Fedora includes open-source and free license software packages and focuses to be on the technology's leading age while working nearly with the communities of upstream Linux. The Fedora project distributes custom variations of Fedora known as Fedora spins for robotics, scientific computing, design, security, gaming, etc. A short version of the life cycle of fedora defines that the update of a package or frequent. It might be complex to a few or satisfying for others who want to use the latest software. 2. Debian: The basic thing that users which is application software. Debian provides us easy access to this application software without having to pre-install them. Damian provides 60,000+ packages (packages are pre-compiled software which is grouped in a good format for efficient installation on our machine) each of it free. 3. OpenSUSE: This project contains three primary goals: It enable OpenSUSE accessible Linux for everyone to access and mostly used Linux distribution. It simplifies dramatically and open the packaging processes and development to enable open the environment of choice for various software vendors and Linux developer. It leverage open-source association to enable OpenSUSE the most useful desktop environment and Linux distribution of the world for experienced and new Linux users. OpenSUSE now facilitates tumbleweed rolling release distro. 4. Solus: It is a fairly newer Linux distribution developed from scratch. It is a very essential approach for various desktop editions such as Solus Mate, Solus Plasma, Solus Gnome, and Solus Bungie. The Bungie Desktop has rapidly grown in popularity and it is one of the all-around desktop platforms we will have the option to boot into. Note: AntiX is a lightweight, easy to install, and fast Linux distro. Best Linux Distros for Experts The below-mentioned distribution concentrates on being simple, lightweight, and more flexible than others. We will remark that these distros will help out to install what we command them to explicitly right through the installation process. 1. Arch Linux: It is an independently built Linux distribution aimed at efficient Linux users. This Linux uses Pacman and its home-grown package manager for updating the modern software applications along with complete dependency tracking. Arch could be installed by an FTP server or CD image. The default install offers a strong base that makes users develop a custom installation. Also, the Arch Build System (short for ABS) facilitates a path to easily create new packages, distribute these packages to other users, and change the stop package's configuration using the Arch Linux user repository. 2. Gentoo: It is a fast and versatile Linux distribution developed for network professionals and developers. This Linux contains an advanced management system known as Portage. Locally, the source code can be compiled according to the preference of users and it can be optimized for the particular computer type unlike the distribution of binary software. The name was selected for reflecting the potential speed growths of machine-specific optimization that is a major aspect of Gentoo. The package management of Gentoo is created to be flexible, easy to manage, portable, and modular. 3. Slackware: It is an advanced Linux OS developed with two goals of stability and ease of use as top priorities. While retaining a tradition, the modern popular software facilitates ease of use and simplicity alongside power and flexibility. It was originally designed in 1991 as a UNIX-like Linux OS now profits through the contributions of millions of developers and users across the world. This Linux facilitates experienced and new users with a complete-featured system, armed for serving in any space from a desktop workstation to a machine-room server. Email servers, FTP, and web are ready to proceed out of the box as these are a huge selection of famous desktop platforms. A complete range of current libraries, editors, and development tools is added for users who want to compile or develop additional software. Next TopicWho command in Linux ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
