https://www.javatpoint.com/mechanical-engineering-mcq
Mechanical Engineering MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint
Mechanical Engineering MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Mechanical Engineering Multiple Choice Questions Our top 50 Mechanical Engineering questions and answers focus on all the areas of this subject. It covers over more than 50 topics in Mechanical Engineering. Anyone who wishes to sharpen their knowledge, preparing for the interviews, or preparing for the entrance exam can practice these Mechanical Engineering Questions. 1) What we call the resistance of a material against any external force. Malleability Stiffness Hardness Strength Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Strength ] Description: Strength is a mechanical property of the material under which it resists change in its dimension shape and any failure by applying any external force. 2) Which hardness test uses the steel ball as indenter? Rockwell C hardness test Brinell Hardness test Rockwell B hardness test Vickers hardness test Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Brinell Hardness Test ] Description: Steel ball is used as an indentor in the Brinell hardness test. 3) In which test, the specimen will be used in the form of the supported beam? Charpy Test Brinell Test Izod test Rockwell hardness test Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Izod Test ] Description: Izod test is like the Charpy test, but the Izod geometry consists of a cantilever beam with the notch located on the same side as the impact point. 4) Which metal from the following has the non-crystalline structure? Quartz Silica Glass Tungsten Iron Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Silica Glass ] Description: Generally, metals exist in crystalline form. The ceramic compound-silica (SiO2), can exist either in a crystalline form or in a non-crystalline form (amorphous form). Silica's non-crystalline (amorphous) form is just called silica glass. 5) Which of the following has less crystallinity? Nickel Iron Low-density polythene High-density polythene Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [Low-Density Polythene ] Description: Iron and nickel, metals, possess a crystalline form, whereas high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and low-density ethylene (LDPE) are a class of polymers. These thermoplastics are semi-crystalline, out of which LDPE exhibits a crystallinity of about 50-60% and HDPE of about 90%. Some people may term HDPE as crystalline, but it is more appropriate to restrict it in the category of semi-crystalline class. 6) Which of the following axis system is being satisfied by tetragonal crystal system? a ? b ? c, ? = ? = ? = 90° a = b ? c, ? = ? = ? = 90° a = b = c, ? ? ? = ? = 90° a = b = c, ? = ? = ? = 90° Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [a = b ? c, ? = ? = ? = 90°] Description: Tetragon has two sides equal and all angles equal 7) Which one of the following is least symmetrical? Simple Cubic Triclinic Monoclinic Tetragonal Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Triclinic ] Description: In the triclinic crystal system, we observe all the sides and angles to be unequal (a ? b ? c and ? ? ? ? ? ? 90°), thus giving the least symmetry (1-fold symmetry) among all 7 Bravais Lattices. 8) ASTM stands for? American Society for Testing and Materials American Society for Tool Measurement American Society for Tensile Material American Society for Tensile Measurement Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ American Society for Testing and Materials ] Description: ASTM stands for American Society for Testing and Materials. ASTM develops technical standards for a wide range of materials products. American Society for Tensile Measurement is used to decide various standards in tensile measurement. 9) What is the scale range of the Mohs hardness test? 1 - 10 1 - 1000 100 - 200 1 - 3000 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ 1- 10 ] Description: Mohs hardness scale was developed by "Frederich Mohs" in 1822, a chart that denotes the various materials' relative hardness (1-softest to 10-hardest). According to the Mohs scale, diamond is the hardest material, and talc is the softest material. 10) What is the first step involved in the process of preparing test samples for microstructural examination? Fine grinding Rough polishing Etching Fine polishing Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Fine grinding ] Description: Fine grinding involves using abrasive silicon carbide to get a flat surface, i.e., nearly free of the disturbed or deformed scratches introduced in the previous sample preparation step. 11) Etching of specimen is done to achieve _______ Invisible grain boundary Visible grain boundary Hardness Toughness Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Visible Grain Boundary ] Description: Etching is done to obtain a visible grain boundary. It is a surface treatment process. 12) Which equipment can be used for the inspection of the inside portion of the hollow chamber or narrow tube? Telescope Endoscope Flexiscope Borescope Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Borescope ] Description: A borescope is used for visual of the inside portion of the hollow chamber. 13) Which of the following property is the fine-grained structure? Corrosion resistance Ductility Hardness Creep resistance Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Ductility ] Description: Finer the grain size (lower the grain size), more is the number of grain boundaries. Thus more is the yield strength; thus, more is the flexibility. This is the reason why we can easily draw a fine-grained structure into wires. 14) Which penetrating liquid is used for the liquid penetration test? Fluorine based solvent Petroleum-based carrier fluid Chlorine-based solvent Water Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Petroleum-based carrier fluid ] Description: In a liquid penetration test, either petroleum-or-water-based carrier fluids are used as solvents or cleaners according to the type of penetrant used. The petroleum-based carrier fluid is a penetrating liquid in a liquid penetration test and fluorescent red color dye for visible light. 15) Which of the following non-destructive testing is used to detect the change in the composition of any material? Ultrasonic Test Liquid penetration test Radiography Eddy current test Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Radiography ] Description: It enables us to detect the change in composition. X-rays or ?-rays are used in radiography techniques. 16) What is the melting point of iron (in ?)? 1535 1410 910 768 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ 1535 ] Description: The melting point of iron in degree centigrade is 1535?. 17) What is the Iron-Carbon phase diagram? Unary phase diagram Binary phase diagram Tertiary phase diagram Ternary phase diagram Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Binary phase diagram ] Description: Binary phase diagrams are based on two-component systems. Here, the two components may be mixed in an infinite number of different proportions, which indicates that composition also becomes a variable, along with pressure and temperature. The iron-carbon phase diagram, Pb-Sn diagram are the best examples of this category. 18) Which of the following reaction does not exhibit a mushy zone in the Fe-C phase diagram? Peritectic reaction Eutectic reaction Peritectoid reaction Eutectoid reaction Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Eutectic ] Description: A mushy zone is nothing but a solid-liquid mix in a two-phase region. The alloys or reactions, which exhibit lower melting points than the two pure metals, are known as eutectic alloy systems taking eutectic reactions that do not exhibit mushy zone. 19) Which of the following material has the carbon varying from 2.1 to 4.3%? Mild steel Dead steel Cast iron Medium carbon steel Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Cast-Iron ] Description: Cast irons are the alloy of iron and carbon that contains 2.1 to 4.3% C, along with other varying amounts of silicon and manganese. This varying carbon range makes them easily castable, asking them to call cast irons. 20) Which of the following material has the carbon varying from 4.3 to 6.67%? Mild Steel Pig Iron Cast Iron Medium carbon steel Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Pig Iron ] Description: Pig iron contains a very high carbon content, usually varies from 4.3 to 6.67%. The pig iron is called so, as it resembles the shape of a reclining pig. 21) Which equation represents the Gibbs phase rule? F = C - P + 2 F = C + P + 2 F = C + P - 1 F = C + P + 1 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ F = C - P + 2 ] Description: The Gibbs phase rule is represented as F = C - P + 2, where F = number of intensive degrees of freedom, P = number of phases, and C = the minimum number of independent constituents. 22) The invariant reaction involving a liquid phase decomposing into two different solids on cooling is known as _____ Eutectic point Eutectoid point Peritectoid point Peritectic point Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Eutectic point ] Description: Explanation: The eutectic invariant reaction, in general, can be represented as: L ? S1 + S2 L represents the liquid of eutectic composition, and S1 and S2 are two different solids of fixed composition each. 23) The Line joining a liquid phase with liquid and solid phase mixture is known as ________ Solidus Liquidus Solvus Tie line Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Liquidus ] Description: Liquidus is the line joining liquid phase with liquid and solid phase mixture. 24) The line joining a solid phase with liquid and solid phase mixture is known as ________ Solidus Liquidus Solvus Tie Line Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Solidus ] Description: Solidus is the line joining liquid phase with liquid and solid phase mixture. 25) Cast iron is a product of _______ Bessemer converter Cupola Blast Furnace Open hearth furnace Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Cupola ] Description: The cupola furnace (a modified blast furnace) can melt cast irons, bronzes, etc. Cast irons have a carbon content of 2-4% and have low melting temperatures, making them easily castable. 26) Wrought iron is a product of ______ Bessemer converter Cupola Puddling furnace Blast furnace Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Puddling furnace ] Description: The puddling furnace creates wrought iron (nearly pure iron) from the pig iron. The wrought iron is tougher and malleable. 27) Which of the following induces fine-grain distribution in alloy steel? Vanadium Nickel Titanium Manganese Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Vanadium ] Description: Vanadium is the most used grain refiner in steel. It forms a microscopic precipitate particle in steel, which acts as pinning agents, thus obstruct grain growth at higher temperatures, encouraging new grains to nucleate. 28) Tensile strength of alloy steel can be improved by adding ______ Vanadium Nickel Titanium Manganese Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Nickel ] Description: Nickel can improve tensile strength as well as the toughness of alloy steel. Small additions of niobium (Nb) also increases the tensile strength of carbon steel. 29) Which of the following is the hardest constituent of steel? Austenite Ledeburite Martensite Bainite Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Martensite ] Description: Martensite is the hardest constituent of steel. The primary reasons for the internal strains within BCC iron are the excess of carbon and the plastic deformation of parent FCC iron surrounding the martensitic plate. The cooling rate and the amount of carbon in steel are directly proportional to the hardness achieved in martensitic transformation. 30) Iron possesses BCC crystal structure up to (in degree centigrade)? 768 910 1410 1539 Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ 768 ] Description: Pure iron possesses either BCC or FCC crystal structure as its temperature increases from room temperature to its melting point. At room temperature to 910° C, it has BCC, between 910° C and 1410° C it has face-centered cubic, and from 1410° C to its melting point (1539° C), it returns to its BCC crystal structure. 31) Which of the following form of iron is magnetic? ? ? ? ? Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ ? ] Description: The alpha form of iron is magnetic and stable at all temperatures, i.e., below 910° C. 32) Which of the following methods is best for examining surface flaws on the castings? Magnetic particle inspection Pressure test Acoustic emission test Visual Inspection Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Visual Inspection ] Description: Visual inspection is a type of non -destructive testing technique that provides a means of detecting and examining the variety of surface flaws, such as surface finish, discontinuities, and surface cracks on the castings. This method is very cheap and widely used because most surface defects and roughness can be easily observed. 33) Which of the following types of light is preferred for using fluorescent penetrant in liquid penetrant testing (LPT) method? Monochromatic Light Normal Light Red Light Ultraviolet Light Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Ultraviolet light ] Description: In the LPT method, the objective is accomplished by entrapment of the inspection liquid by the flaws followed by visual inspection of the surface under ultraviolet light (when using a fluorescent penetrant), and for visible dye penetrant normal light can be used for the inspection process. 34) Which of the following processes is preferred for preparing aluminum ingots for the liquid penetrant testing method? Caustic etching Machining Acid pickling Grinding Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Acid Prickling ] Description: When the liquid penetrant test is used for aluminum ingots, before the test, the surfaces of the aluminum ingots are prepared or treated with the acid pickle. This process is known as acid pickling, and it is recommended in preference to all other processes like caustic etching, machining, etc. 35) Which of the following inspections is used for detecting invisible surface defects in a nonmagnetic casting? Dye penetrant inspection Visual inspection Ultrasonic inspection Radiography examination Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Dye penetrant inspection ] Description: The dye penetrant inspection method is mainly used to detect invisible surface defects in a nonmagnetic casting. The casting is cleaned by brushing, and then spraying or dipping of the casting is done into a dye containing a fluorescent material. Then for inspection, casting is dried and viewed in the darkness that reveals the discontinuities in the surface. 36) Which of the following methods is best for detecting interior flaws in the castings? Visual inspection Liquid penetrant test Ultrasonic inspection Magnetic particle inspection Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Ultrasonic Inspection ] Description: In the ultrasonic inspection, a beam of high-frequency sound waves is introduced into the material to detect interior flaws in the material. The sound wave travels through the material with some loss of energy and is reflected at the interfaces. It will be further analyzed to define the presence and location of flaws in the casting. 37) Which of the following was not a classification of a subject taking the MFFT? Slow in-accurate Slow accurate Reflectives Fast-Accurates Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ Slow accurate ] Description: The subjects taking the MFFT, the subjects were then classified into four categories, namely, fast-accurates, reflectives, impulsive and slow-inaccurate. Slow-accurates were not one of the classifications. 38) Which of the following parameter is used to assess the magnetic ability of a material? Magnetization Magnetic flux density Susceptibility Magnetic dipole moment Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Susceptibility ] Description: Magnetic susceptibility is a measure to quantify a material's ability to undergo magnetization in an applied magnetic field. It is the ratio of magnetization (M) to the applied magnetic field intensity (H). 39) With an increase in temperature, the resistance of a semiconductor _________ Decreases Increases Remains Constant First increases and then decreases Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Decreases ] Description: Semiconductors have a negative temperature coefficient of resistance; thus, resistance increases with decreasing temperature. 40) What is the polymerization of two or more chemically different monomers forming a long molecular chain? Copolymerization Addition Polymerization Chain growth polymerization Condensation polymerization Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Copolymerization ] Description: Copolymerization involves the polymerization of two or more different monomers to form a long chain molecule. A well-known 'Nylon 66' is a copolymer of hexamethylenediamine and adipic acid. 41) Which of the following is a secondary bond network of thermoplastics? 0-Dimensional 1-Dimensional 2-Dimensional 3-Dimensional Show Answer Workspace Answer: B [ 1-Dimensional ] Description: Thermoplastics have a one-dimensional network of '2-degree' secondary bonds. 42) Which of the following are ceramics solids? Non-metallic, organic, and amorphous solids Non-metallic, inorganic, and crystalline solids Metallic, inorganic, and amorphous solids Non-metallic, inorganic, and amorphous solids Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Non-metallic, inorganic and amorphous solids ] Description: Ceramics are non-metallic, inorganic, amorphous solids and are mostly oxides of metals. Ceramics possess low tensile strength and are brittle. 43) For an M10 grade RCC (Reinforced Cement Concrete), the cement ratio to aggregate to the sand is? 1:3:4 1:2:3 1:2:6 1:3:6 Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ 1:3:6 ] Description: M10 grade of RCC have cement to aggregate to sand ratio equal to 1:3:6. 44) Which one of the following can act as a modifier in the glass-forming process? Sodium oxide Silicon dioxide Phosphorous oxide Magnesium oxide Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Magnesium oxide ] Description: Magnesium oxide is used as a viscosity modifier, making glass melt viscosity in the desired range for proper formation of the filaments. 45) Which of the following is not a laminar composite? Cladding Bimetallic Wood Paints Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Woods ] Description: Wood is not a laminar composite. Bimetallic, cladding, and paints are considered laminar composites. 46) In sandwich composites, which of the following material can be used for filling purposes? Polymer Wood Cement All of them Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ All of them ] Description: Wood, cement, and polymer can be used to fill the gap in sandwich composites. 47) Which of the following has a greater impact on the longitudinal strength of reinforced composites? Fiber strength Fiber orientation Fiber diameter Fiber length Show Answer Workspace Answer: A [ Fiber Strength ] Description: Longitudinal strength of reinforced composites is directly proportional to their fiber strength. 48) Angle between side cutting edge and end cutting edge in the top surface plane of the tool. Side relief angle Side rake angle Nose angle Side cutting edge angle Show Answer Workspace Answer: D [ Nose Angle ] Description: Nose angle is the angle between side cutting edge and end cutting edge. 49) What is the maximum allowed value of VB in mm for the HSS tool used with the cast iron workpiece for rough machining? 1 0.5 2 1.5 Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ 2 ] Description: VB denotes the width of wear land. Maximum 2mm width of wear land is allowed in flank wear. 50) Which of the following tools is most suitable for very hard and brittle material? Cast-cobalt alloy HSS Carbides None of them Show Answer Workspace Answer: C [ Carbides ] Description: Carbides are very hard and have very good red hot hardness properties, hence most suitable for machining hard and brittle material. Next TopicEnvironmental Studies MCQ ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
