https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/reverse/
Reverse Archives - GeeksforGeeks
Reverse Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2021 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2021 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering Web Technologies HTML CSS Javascript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Student Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Campus Mantri Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Home Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas School Learning ? Tag Archives: Reverse Modify a sentence by reversing order of occurrences of all Palindrome Words Easy Given a string S representing a sentence, the task is to reverse the order of all palindromic words present in the sentence. Examples: Input: S… Read More palindrome Reverse Searching Strings Absolute difference between the count of set bits in N and its reverse Medium Given an integer N, the task is to find the absolute difference between the number of set bits present in the number N and in… Read More number-digits Reverse setBitCount Bit Magic Mathematical Longest set of Palindrome Numbers from the range [L, R] with at most K difference between its maximum and minimum Given three positive integers L, R, and K, the task is to find the largest group of palindromic numbers from the range [L, R] such… Read More palindrome Reverse Mathematical Searching XOR linked list: Reverse last K nodes of a Linked List Given a XOR Linked List and a positive integer K, the task is to reverse the last K nodes in the given XOR linked list.… Read More Bitwise-XOR Reverse Bit Magic Linked List Count numbers from a range whose cube is a Palindrome Expert Given an array Q[][] consisting of N queries of the form {L, R}, the task for each query is to find the total count of… Read More palindrome Reverse Technical Scripter 2020 Mathematical Technical Scripter Check if Nodes in Top view of a Binary Tree forms a Palindrome Number or not Given a binary tree consisting of N nodes, the task is to check if the nodes in the top view of a Binary Tree forms… Read More palindrome Reverse Tree Traversals tree-level-order Hash Queue Recursion Tree Lexicographically smallest K-length subsequence from a given string Medium Given a string S of length N, the task is to find the lexicographically smallest K-length subsequence from the string S (where K < N). … Read More lexicographic-ordering Reverse subsequence Stack Strings Count of unique pairs (i, j) in an array such that sum of A[i] and reverse of A[j] is equal to sum of reverse of A[i] and A[j] Easy Given an array arr[] consisting of N positive integers, the task is to find the count of unique pairs (i, j) such that the sum… Read More cpp-unordered_map frequency-counting HashTable Reverse Arrays Hash Lexicographically largest permutation of array possible by reversing suffix subarrays Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the lexicographically largest permutation array by reversing any suffix subarrays from the array.… Read More array-rearrange lexicographic-ordering Reverse Suffix Technical Scripter 2020 Arrays Technical Scripter Lexicographically smallest Palindromic Path in a Binary Tree Easy Given a Binary Tree with each node representing an alphabet, the task is to find lexicographically smallest palindromic root to leaf path. If no palindromic… Read More Binary Tree palindrome Preorder Traversal Reverse Strings Tree Menu driven program in C++ to perform various basic operations on array Medium Prerequisite: Switch Statement in C/C++, Functions in C/C++, Loops in C and C++, C/C++ do-while loop with Examples Write a menu-driven program to perform below… Read More Arrays Menu driven programs Reverse Technical Scripter 2020 Arrays Mathematical Searching Technical Scripter Maximum prefix sum after K reversals of a given array Given an array arr[] of size N and a positive integer K, the task is to find the maximum prefix sum after K reversals of… Read More array-rearrange prefix-sum Reverse Technical Scripter 2020 Arrays Mathematical Technical Scripter XOR Linked List – Reverse a Linked List in groups of given size Given a XOR linked list and an integer K, the task is to reverse every K nodes in the given XOR linked list. Examples: Input:… Read More Bitwise-XOR Linked Lists Reverse Bit Magic Data Structures Linked List Recursion Maximize difference between sum of even and odd-indexed elements of a subsequence Given an array arr[] consisting of N positive integers, the task is to find the maximum possible difference between the sum of even and odd-indexed… Read More Reverse subsequence Arrays Mathematical Reverse an array using Stack Given an array arr[] of size N, the task to reverse the array using Stack. Examples: Input: arr[] = { 10, 20, 30, 40, 50… Read More Reverse Technical Scripter 2020 Arrays Stack Technical Scripter Page 1 of 912345...»Last » What’s New Data Structures and Algorithms – Self Paced Course View Details Ad-Free Experience – GeeksforGeeks Premium View Details Most popular in Reverse Reverse a linked list Different methods to reverse a string in C/C++ Reverse words in a given string Reverse a stack using recursion Reverse a Linked List in groups of given size | Set 1 Most visited in Reverse Collections.reverse() in Java with Examples Print words of a string in reverse order Reverse an ArrayList in Java Reverse a string without affecting special characters Recursively Reversing a linked list (A simple implementation) 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Practice Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !
