https://www.javatpoint.com/latte-vs-cappuccino
Difference between Latte and Cappuccino - javatpoint
Difference between Latte and Cappuccino - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Latte and Cappuccino There are many variants of coffee, tea, and other food items that we try every day. Out of these varieties of food, coffee is one of the favourite beverages of people. But there are many coffee varieties as well, like cappuccino, frappuccino, latte, mocha, etc. We are often confused between all of them. We cannot make out as to which coffee we must have. Most of the time people are confused between latte and cappuccino. Both the terms seem to be the same, but it is not so. The difference between the terms is shown below: S.NO. CAFÉ LATTE CAPPUCCINO 1. CAFÉ latte was originated in America. The cappuccino was originated in Italy. 2. CAFÉ latte is served in special porcelain cups. These cups have good heating properties. On the other hand, cappuccino is served in a glass along with a saucer and a napkin. 3. CAFÉ latte contains more amount of steamed milk. Cappuccino contains less amount of steamed milk. 4. In the CAFÉ latte, the espresso and milk are mixed. In cappuccino, the espresso and milk are distinctively layered. These are some key differences between latte and cappuccino. Both latte and cappuccino are beverage drinks which are popular among the teenagers. Let us discuss some more information regarding café latte and cappuccino. Café Latte is a type of coffee made with espresso milk and steamed milk. Café latte is taken from the Italian word 'caffellate' meaning coffee and milk. The words are spelled differently sometimes in English with different accent symbols. Café latte is a hot and iced coffee that originated in Italy. The only variation made to café latte is café mocha, wherein the chocolate flavour is used. The traditional term 'café au lait' was used in Northern Europe and Scandinavia. In French, the café latte is called grand crème, whereas, in Germany, the term used is Milchkaffee. Other kinds of milks, like soy milk, almond milk, etc., are used to differentiate the café latte in terms of taste. Now, let us see some historical points regarding café late. Coffee and milk have always been part of European Cuisine since the 17th Many different terms are used to depict the combination of espresso and milk. According to the oxford dictionary, the term café latte was used by William Dean Howells in 1867. The term 'Café au lait' was used in European cafés from the year 1900s. On the other hand, the French people started using the term 'café crème,' meaning coffee with cream. After World War II, we rarely saw the term latte in households and cafés. The term was replaced by other terms like espresso, cappuccino, etc. In Spain, two terms were used widely, i.e., 'café con leche' meaning coffee with milk and 'cortado' meaning coffee with less milk. Both the terms are vivid and have different meanings. In the 1980s, the term latte again came into being and became popular in various regions of Scandinavia and Europe. These are some historical points regarding café latte. It is interesting to note that latte is an important part of breakfast for the people of Italy till today. Apart from Italy, café latte is sold in cafés and restaurants. One variation of café latte is iced latte wherein instead of steamed milk the iced milk is used. Milk is not used in the iced latte. The iced latte is always served with ice and a variety of syrups. Café latte is widely served in several countries wherein the taste and style of serving vary. Thus, café latte is one of the popular drinks in all cultures. Having discussed so much about the café latte, now let us see some information regarding cappuccino. Like café latte, cappuccino is an Italian drink prepared from steamed milk and espresso. There are many variations of this beverage. For instance, instead of milk, the cream is used. The flavoring of cinnamon and chocolate is also done in cappuccino. Well, cappuccino is much smaller than café latte in volume. Cappuccino also consists of a micro-foam which is a thick layer of milk. Cappuccino is a dark brewed beverage that came into being in the 17th century. It reached several countries in the late 1930s. Various establishments were set up in European countries wherein cappuccino was sold in cafés and restaurants. Cappuccino consists of a single shot of espresso served along with hot milk. An espresso machine is used for preparing cappuccino. Cappuccino comes from the Latin word 'Caputium.' This term was later modified by the Germans and was called 'Kapuziner.' Now, let us look at some historical points regarding cappuccino. In the earlier times, coffee was made with water, thereby mixing these two things. In the 18th century, the British began filtering the coffee. This method was adopted later by some European countries. By the mid 19th century, coffee was made using different machines. These kinds of coffees were designed for both home and public cafés. In the 1700s, coffee was made either with milk or without it. The cappuccino was first mentioned in the year 1930s in Italy. After World War II, espresso machines were widespread. This change came the 1950s, wherein the restaurants used espresso and milk in preparing the cappuccino. So, these are some historical points regarding cappuccino. Over the years, there has been a lot of evolution in cappuccinos. Every country has a different way of making cappuccino, thereby adding some syrups, ice creams, etc. The more number of types paves the way for more number of ways for preparing a cappuccino. As far as the difference between latte and cappuccino is concerned, they differ in origin, meaning, and serving styles. Both are different types of beverages that differ in taste, serving, and meaning. The difference between the two terms is already given above. Both café latte and cappuccino are popular in every culture in the present scenario. Thus, both the drinks are varied and delicious at the same time. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
