https://www.javatpoint.com/linux-shell
Linux Shell - javatpoint
Linux Shell - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Linux Shell The shell can be defined as a command interpreter within an operating system like Linux/GNU or Unix. It is a program that runs other programs. The shell facilitates every user of the computer as an interface to the Unix/GNU Linux system. Hence, the user can execute different tools/utilities or commands with a few input data. The shell sends the result to the user over the screen when it has completed running a program which is the common output device. That's why it is known as "command interpreter". The shell is not just a command interpreter. Also, the shell is a programming language with complete constructs of a programming language such as functions, variables, loops, conditional execution, and many others. For this reason, GNU/Unix Linux Shell is stronger than the Windows shell. Broadly, the shell is categorized into two main categories which are explained below: Graphical Shells These shells specifies the manipulation of programs that are based on the graphical user interface (GUI) by permitting for operations like moving, closing, resizing, and opening windows and switching focus among windows as well. Ubuntu OS or Windows OS could be examined as a good example that offers a graphical user interface to the user to interact with the program. Various users don't need for typing in any command for all the actions. Command-line Shell Various shells could be accessed with the help of a command-line interface by users. A unique program known as Command prompt in Windows or Terminal in macOS/Linux is offered for typing in the human-understandable commands like "ls", "cat", etc and after that, it is being run. The result is further shown to the user on the terminal. Working on a command-line shell is a complicated for many beginners due to it is hard to remember several commands. Command-line shell is very dominant and it permits users for storing commands in a file and run them together. In this way, a repetitive action could be automated easily. Usually, these files are known as Shell scripts in macOS/Linux systems and batch files in Windows. There are various types of shells which are discussed as follows: Bash Shell In the bash shell, bash means Bourne Again Shell. It is a default shell over several distributions of Linux today. It is a sh-compatible shell. It could be installed over Windows OS. It facilitates practical improvements on sh for interactive and programming use which contains: Job Control Command-line editing Shell Aliases and Functions Unlimited size command history Integer arithmetic in a base from 2-64 Csh/Tcsh Shell Tcsh is an upgraded C shell. This shell can be used as a shell script command processor and interactive login shell. Tcsh shell includes the following characteristics: C like syntax Filename completion and programmable word Command-line editor Job control Spelling correction Ksh Shell Ksh means for Korn shell. It was developed and designed by David G. Korn. Ksh shell is a high-level, powerful, and complete programming language and it is a reciprocal command language as well just like various other GNU/Unix Linux shells. The usage and syntax of the C shell are very same as the C programming language. Zsh Shell Zsh shell is developed to be reciprocal and it combines various aspects of other GNU/Unix Linux shells like ksh, tcsh, and bash. Also, the POSIX shell standard specifications were based on the Korn shell. Also, it is a strong scripting language like other available shells. Some of its unique features are listed as follows: Startup files Filename generation Login/Logout watching Concept index Closing comments Variable index Key index Function index and various others that we could find out within the man pages. All these shells do a similar job but take different commands and facilitate distinct built-in functions. Fish Fish stands for "friendly interactive shell". It was produced in 2005. Fish shell was developed to be fully user-friendly and interactive just like other shells. It contains some good features which are mentioned below: Web-based configuration Man page completions Auto-suggestions Support for term256 terminal automation Completely scripted with clean scripts Shell Prompt It is known as a command prompt and it is issued via the shell. We can type any command while the prompt is shown. Shell reads our input after we click Enter. It illustrates the command we want to be run by seeing at the initial word of our input. A word can be defined as the character's unbroken set. Tabs and spaces separate words. The below is a common data command example that shows the current time and date: We can also customize our command prompt with the help of PS1 (environment variable). Shell Scripting The common concept of the shell script is the command list. A good shell script will contain comments which are preceded via # simbol. Shell functions and scripts are interpreted. It means they aren't compiled. There are also conditional tests like value Y is greater than value Z, loops permitting us to proceed by massive data amounts, files to store and read data, and variables to store and read data, and these scripts may contain functions. The shells are usually interactive which means they receive commands as input through the users and run them. Although sometimes we routinely wish to run a set of commands, hence, we have to type within the commands all-time inside the terminal. A shell script includes syntax similarly to other programming languages. When we have prior experience along with a programming language such as C/C++, Python, etc. It will be very easy to begin with it. The shell script combines the below components: Functions Control flow: if, else, then, shell loops, case, etc. Shell commands: touch, pwd, echo, ls, cd, etc. Shell keywords: break, if, else, etc. Shell Scripts Need There are several causes to write these shell scripts: For avoiding automation and repetitive work Shell scripting is used by system admins for many routine backups Including new functionalities to the shell System monitoring etc. Shell Script Advantages The syntax and command are exactly similar to those entered directly in a command line. Thus, the programmers don't have to switch to completely different syntax Interactive debugging Quick start It is much quicker to write the shell scripts etc. Shell Script Disadvantages A single error can modify the command which could be harmful, so prone to very costly errors. Design flaws in the language implementation and syntax. Slower execution speed. Offer minimal data structure dissimilar other scripting languages. Not well suited for complex and large tasks etc. Script Example Assume we make a test.sh script. We have to alert a system that the shell script is started before we include anything else in our script. Note: Every script will have a .sh extension. It can be done with the help of the shebang construct. For example: 
#!/bin/sh
 It shows the system that several commands that pursue are to be run by the Bourne shell. It is known as the shebang due to the symbol # is known as hash and the symbol ! It is known as the bang. To make a script including these commands, we put the shebang construct line first, and after that add any command: 
#!/bin/bash
pwd
Is
 Comments in shell We can put our comments in our script below: 
#!/bin/bash
 Make the script runnable and save the content mention above: 
$chmod +x test.sh
 Now, the shell script is ready to be run: 
$./test.sh
 Under execution, we will get the result as follows: 
/home/amrood
index.htm unix-basic_utilities.htm unix-directories.htm
test.sh unix-communication.htm unix-environment.htm
 Note:- For executing a program present in the latest directory, we can use the ./program_name Extended Shell Scripts The shell scripts contain several needed constructs that define the shell platform when to do it and what to do. Most of the scripts are more complicated than the above scripts. After all, the shell is an actual programming language that is complete with control structures, variables, and so on. Still, it is only the commands list executed sequentially no matter how complex a script gets. The following script is using the read command that gets the input through the keyboard and appoints it as the variable PERSON value and prints it over STDOUT finally. Next TopicLinux Meaning ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
