https://www.javatpoint.com/jaguar-vs-leopard
Jaguar vs. Leopard - javatpoint
Jaguar vs. Leopard - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Jaguar vs. Leopard A first glance, many people get confused between jaguar and leopard because both of them look mostly similar in looks. Both animals are big muscular cats with spotted coats that attack by surprise on their hunt. If someone sees them for the first time, they can be deceived and consider both jaguar and leopard are the same. Still, there are many similarities; there are some few things that differentiate whether a big cat is a jaguar or a leopard. This article will compare jaguar vs. leopard and vice-versa on various factors such as physical appearance, natural range, behavior, etc., with images that make it easy to understand. Before starting to discuss the difference between jaguar and leopard, it is interesting to know the similarities between these two muscular predators: Some similarities between Jaguar and Leopard Both animals are Panthera genus members that make them the only true big cats with lions and tigers. The interesting fact is that these four cats are the only animals that are able to roar. Both jaguars and leopards are proficient hunters who protect their area and live as a solitary way of life. If you found more than one jaguar or leopard together, they will either a mother with their cubs or a mating pair. Unfortunately, both jaguars and leopards are endangered species; the recent decade has seen a decline in their population. Leopards are considered in danger in the IUCN Red List, while jaguars are under threat. Being so many similarities, what are the difference between jaguar and leopard? Below we will discuss differences in various categories, including physical appearance, range & habitat, natural range, and behavior. Jaguar vs. leopard (the difference between Jaguar and Leopard) Physical Appearance a) Body Jaguars have a short and compact body with broad shoulder muscles. They have large barrel-like abdomens that look as they are pregnant or well-fed. Leopards have a longer and slight build even more than a jaguar. The slender shape and its long tail make the leopard a more agile animal for better climbing and running speed. b) Size Male Jaguar: 110 -120 kg Male Leopard: 40 - 80kg Female Jaguar: 85 - 90 kg Female Leopard: 20 - 60 kg Killing technique Jaguars prefer to kill their hunt either by a powerful bite to the spinal column / spinal cord and breaking the neck or using their canine teeth to piercing through the prey's skull. In comparison, leopards prefer to kill their prey using suffocating bites near the throat or around the mouth. Both species like to hunt and ambush; rather, they chase for a long time. Body Markings At a first and instant look, both the jaguar and the leopard have an equally beautiful rosette pattern across the entire skin. Both of them have pointed flakes of black circles that look like roses, with a tawny coat. The black pointed circles look more closely but looking carefully, and you will find slight differences in their rosettes. Jaguar's rosettes are bigger, and there is one smaller black spot at the center of each rosette circle. On the other hand, leopard's rosettes are smaller in size, simple and each circle is closer to the other. Both these big cats may have black rosettes on their golden skin, or in few cases, the skin may be completely black. Habitat range The wildlife habitat of jaguar and leopard are totally different continents. The jaguar is mostly found in Argentina in South America up to the Grand Canyon in Arizona. However, nowadays, the jaguar has been almost eliminated from the US, and they are an endangered species. On the other hand, leopards are native to Africa, countries of Asia from Sri Lanka, India up to China, the Middle East part of the Soviet Union, Koria, and Malaysia. The majority of the leopard population lives in the South and Eastern part of Africa. Both jaguar and leopard are adaptive in nature and survive in different habitats. Behavior Jaguars are more powerful than leopards when it is encountered with another larger species. Leopards are ashamed to see a large animal such as a lion or hyena, while jaguars will boldly stand on their land or may attack anaconda or large animals in their native habitat. Tree climbing Both jaguar and leopard are capable of climbing trees, although jaguars are not as active as leopards in trees. Jaguar is a better predator in its area and does not consider the necessity for hiding its prey by climbing on a tree, so jaguar mostly spends their time on solid ground. Leopards usually hide their prey on a tree so that the big predator animals such as lions and hyenas could not reach it. They also spend their time resting and sleeping on trees, so they are highly skilled climbers. The Head The head's shape and size vary much more between these two cats due to different killing techniques. Jaguar has a round face with a larger head and a wider jaw. Jaguar's wider jaw and strong teeth allow it for a strong bite on a hunt. Leopard has a comparatively smaller, angular head with sharp cheekbones. Tail length Tail length is another physical appearance that differs from jaguar to leopard. The tail of the jaguar is much shorter that matches its short body structure. Leopards have long tails that help them to make balance while climbing and descending trees. Love of Water Jaguar and leopard are both good swimmers, but there is a difference in their time in the water. Jaguars spend a lengthy time in the water as it regularly hunts anacondas and dives for big fish. Jaguars in Pantanal have not any other option because they live in a wetland. However, leopards spend less time in water and mostly try to avoid it whenever it can be possible. Diet Jaguars are the cat with a varied diet near about 85 species but not much as leopards, which has the most varied diet near about 100 species. Both of them adopt themselves as per the feed in their area, and they eat near about anything. Jaguars are the only big cats like reptiles such as tortoises, caimans, turtles, and snakes. Jaguars also attack and hunt big animals such as cattle. Leopards use birds, fish, lizards, and even sometimes animals attacked by lions as they are not an apex predator. Age of Independence Jaguars mainly become independent at a younger age from their mother as compared to leopards. It is found that female jaguars leave their mother in about 14-15 months and male jaguars leave their mother in about 18-20 months. The female leopards are leaving their mother at the age of 18-24 months, and male leopards show the sign of heading off at closer to 24 months. Thus jaguars grew up faster and became independent very quickly. Sexual Maturity A male jaguar gets sexually mature between 3-4 years, and a female jaguar mature in around 2-3 years. As compared to the jaguar, leopards get sexually mature slightly late. Most of the female leopards get mature and fall pregnant for the first time at near about three and a half (3.5) years. Life expectancy The jaguar's life expectancy is uncertain in the wild, but they live up to 13-15 years. On the other hand, a leopard's life expectancy is around 12-15 years in the wild, and even there are many cases in which a female leopard reaches over 17 years. Jaguar vs. leopard fight - which would win? It is a completely hypothetical question that which one wins a fight between a jaguar and a leopard. Both jaguars and leopards are fast runners, good tree climbers and well swimmers, and their fight becomes an all-ground battle. As we have discussed above, jaguars are stronger and heavier than leopards. Jaguars do the strongest bite among all big cats, and they are capable of crushing a bone with a single bite. These factors give a jaguar advantage in the fight between these big cats and make jaguars win. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
