https://www.javatpoint.com/architecture-of-linux
Architecture of Linux - javatpoint
Architecture of Linux - javatpoint ? Home Linux C Java Python Shell Scripting SQL HTML CSS JavaScript XML Ajax Android Projects Interview Q Linux Tutorial Linux Tutorial What is Linux Advantages of Linux Linux History Linux Features Linux Bash Unix vs Linux Linux vs Windows Linux Distributions Linux Licensing Set Environment Variable Linux Set Command Linux export Command Linux Directories Linux Directories Linux Home Directory Linux pwd Linux cd Linux Absolute Relative Linux Path Completion Linux ls Linux mkdir Linux rmdir Rename Folder in Linux Linux Commands Linux commands List Commands with Example Linux Users Linux Users Linux Create User Local su Commands Linux User Management User Password Local Groups Add User to Group Linux id Command Linux Files Linux Files Linux File System Linux Create File Linux file Linux touch Linux rm Linux cp Linux mv Linux rename Linux install Command Linux read Command Linux File Contents Linux File Contents Open File in Linux Linux Edit File Linux which command Linux head Linux tail Linux cat Linux tac Linux more Linux less Linux strings command Linux Print Linux Process Kill Process Linux Linux terminating 1) Linux kill 2) Linux killall 3) Linux pkill 4) Linux xkill Nohup Command Linux at command Linux exit command Linux File Hierarchy Linux File Hierarchy Binary Directories Configuration Directories Data Directories Memory Directories Usr Directory var Directory Non-standard directories Linux Filters Linux Filters Linux cat Linux cut Linux grep Linux comm Linux sed Linux tee Linux tr Linux uniq Linux wc Linux od Linux sort Linux gzip AWK Command Linux AWK Command Programming with Linux Linux make command GCC Linux Linux I/O Redirection Linux I/O Redirection Linux Input Redirection Linux Output Redirection Linux Error Redirection Linux Unix Tools Linux Unix Tools Linux Find Linux Locate Linux Date Linux Cal Linux Sleep Linux Time Linux zcat/zmore Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 Linux bzcat / bzmore Linux df Linux Regex Linux expr command Linux RegEx Linux Grep RegEx Linux rename RegEx Linux Sed RegEx File Security Linux File OwnerShip Linux chgrp Command Linux File Permission Linux chmod Command Linux chown command Linux Advance Permission Linux File Links 1) Linux Inodes 2) Linux Link Directories 3) Linux Hard links 4) Linux Soft links 5) Linux Remove link Shell Commands Linux Shell Commands Linux Aliases Linux Arguments Linux Displaying Shell Linux Control Operators 1) Semicolon 2) Ampersand 3) Dollar Question Mark 4) Double Ampersand 5) Double Vertical Bar 6) Combining && and || 7) Pound Sign 8) ESC Linux File Globbing Linux Shell Embedding Linux Shell History Linux history Command Linux History Commands Linux Histroy Size Linux Bang Bang Linux Networking Linux Networking 1) Linux ifconfig 2) Linux ip Linux telnet Command SSH Linux Linux mail Command 3) Linux traceroute 4) Linux tracepath 5) Linux ping 6) Linux netstat 7) Linux ss 8) Linux dig 9) Linux nslookup 10) Linux route 11) Linux host 12) Linux arp 13) Linux iwconfig 14) Linux hostname 15) Linux curl & wget Linux Curl Command 16) Linux mtr 17) Linux whois 18) Linux ifplugstatus Linux Misc chkconfig command in Linux How to change user password in Linux Awk Command Usage How to unzip files in Linux Linux chroot Command Linux Watch Command Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux Clear cache Linux 7 QC Tools Linux Process Memory Usage Linux Tree Command Wine Linux Linux Commands to Check Disk Space Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu Architecture of Linux Linux Lite Linux Shell Linux Meaning Linux Foundation Linux List Directories Linux Shortcuts Best Linux Distro Who command in Linux Linux Editors Linux Text Editors Linux vi Editor Vi Editor 1) switch 2) move 3) jump 4) delete 5) undo and repeat 6) cut, copy, paste 7) cut, copy, paste blocks 8) Start and end 9) Joining 10) word 11) Search 12) Replace all 13) Text Buffers 14) Abbreviations Linux System Admin Linux Admin Commands Linux uptime Linux service Linux pmap Linux wget command Linux ftp or sftp Linux free Command Linux top Linux last Linux ps Linux shutdown Linux info Linux env Linux du Linux init Linux Nano Editor Linux shred Linux mount Linux route Linux Man Pages Linux man Linux man -a Linux man -aw Linux man -f Linux man -k(apropos) Linux man whereis Whatis command in Linux Error Codes Linux Error Codes Linux Interview next ? ? prev Architecture of Linux Let's first start with the basic knowledge of the Linux operating system. Linux operating system An operating system can be described as an interface among the computer hardware and the user of any computer. It is a group of software that handles the resources of the computer hardware and facilitates basic services for computer programs. An operating system is an essential component of system software within a computer system. The primary aim of an operating system is to provide a platform where a user can run any program conveniently or efficiently. On the other hand, Linux OS is one of the famous versions of the UNIX OS. It is developed to provide a low-cost or free OS for several personal computer system users. Remarkably, it is a complete OS Including an X Window System, Emacs editor, IP/TCP, GUI (graphical user interface), etc. Linux operating system history In 1991, the Linux history started with the starting of a particular project by the Finland student Linus Torvalds for creating a new free OS kernel. The final Linux Kernel was remarked by continuous development throughout the history since then. Linux was proposed by the Finland student Linus Torvalds in 1991. HP-UX (Hewlett Packard) 8.0 version was published. Hewlett Packard 9.0 version was published in 1992. FreeBSD 1.0 version and NetBSD8 version was released in 1993. Red Hat Linux was proposed in 1994. Caldera was detected by Ransom love and Bryan Sparks and NetBSD 1.0 version published. HP-UX 10.0 version and FreeBSD 2.0 version was released in 1995. K Desktop Environment was established by Matthias Ettrich in 1996. HP-UX 11.0 version was released in 1997. The IRIX 6.5 version, i.e., the fifth SGI UNIX generation, Free BSD 3.0 version, and Sun Solaris 7 OS was released in 1998. The Caldera System agreement with professional services division and SCO server software division was released in 2000. Linus Torvalds published the Linux version 2.4 source code in 2001. Microsoft filed the Trademark collection against Lindows.com in 2001. Lindows name was modified to Linspire in 2004. The first publication of Ubuntu was published in 2004. The openSUSE project started a free distribution from the community of Novell In 2005. Oracle published its Red Hat distribution in 2006. Dell begun laptop distribution with Ubuntu which was pre-installed on it in 2007. Linux kernel version 3.0 was released in 2011. Linux-based android of Google insisted 75% of the market share of the Smartphone, based on the number of phones exported in 2013. Ubuntu insisted on 20000000+ users in 2014. Architecture of Linux system The Linux operating system's architecture mainly contains some of the components: the Kernel, System Library, Hardware layer, System, and Shell utility. 1. Kernel:- The kernel is one of the core section of an operating system. It is responsible for each of the major actions of the Linux OS. This operating system contains distinct types of modules and cooperates with underlying hardware directly. The kernel facilitates required abstraction for hiding details of low-level hardware or application programs to the system. There are some of the important kernel types which are mentioned below: Monolithic Kernel Micro kernels Exo kernels Hybrid kernels 2. System Libraries:- These libraries can be specified as some special functions. These are applied for implementing the operating system's functionality and don't need code access rights of the modules of kernel. 3. System Utility Programs:- It is responsible for doing specialized level and individual activities. 4. Hardware layer:- Linux operating system contains a hardware layer that consists of several peripheral devices like CPU, HDD, and RAM. 5. Shell:- It is an interface among the kernel and user. It can afford the services of kernel. It can take commands through the user and runs the functions of the kernel. The shell is available in distinct types of OSes. These operating systems are categorized into two different types, which are the graphical shells and command-line shells. The graphical line shells facilitate the graphical user interface, while the command line shells facilitate the command line interface. Thus, both of these shells implement operations. However, the graphical user interface shells work slower as compared to the command-line interface shells. There are a few types of these shells which are categorized as follows: Korn shell Bourne shell C shell POSIX shell Linux Operating System Features Some of the primary features of Linux OS are as follows: Portable: Linux OS can perform different types of hardware and the kernel of Linux supports the installation of any type of hardware environment. Open source: Linux operating system source code is available freely and for enhancing the capability of the Linux OS, several teams are performing in collaboration. Multiprogramming: Linux OS can be defined as a multiprogramming system. It means more than one application can be executed at the same time. Multi-user: Linux OS can also be defined as a multi-user system. It means more than one user can use the resources of the system such as application programs, memory, or RAM at the same time. Hierarchical file system: Linux OS affords a typical file structure where user files or system files are arranged. Security: Linux OS facilitates user security systems with the help of various features of authentication such as controlled access to specific files, password protection, or data encryption. Shell: Linux operating system facilitates a unique interpreter program. This type of program can be applied for executing commands of the operating system. It can be applied to perform various types of tasks such as call application programs and others. Drawbacks of Linux Hardware drivers: Most of the users of Linux face an issue while using Linux. Various companies of hardware prefer to build drivers for Mac or Windows due to they contain several users than Linux. Linux has small drivers for peripheral hardware than windows. Software alternative: Let's take the Photoshop example which is a famous tool for graphic editing. Photoshop exists for Windows; however, it is not available in Linux. Also, there are some other tools for photo editing but the Photoshop tool is more powerful as compare to others. Another example is MS office which is not present for Linux users. Learning curve: Linux isn't a very user-friendly operating system. Hence, it might be confusing for many beginners. Getting begun with Windows is efficient and easy for many beginners; however, understanding Linux working is complex. We have to understand the command line interface and finding for newer software is a little bit complex as well. When we face any issue in the OS, the searching solution is very problematic. Also, there are various experts for Mac and Windows as compare to Linux. Games: Several games are developed for Windows but unfortunately not for Linux. Because the platform of Windows is used widely. So, the developers of the games are more interested in windows. Linux Operating System Applications Linux is a billion-dollar corporation nowadays. Thousands of governments and companies are using Linux operating system across the world because of lower money, time, licensing fee, and affordability. Linux can be used within several types of electronic devices. These electronic devices are easily available for users worldwide. A few of the famous Linux-based electronic devices are listed below: Yamaha Motive Keyboard Volvo In-Car Navigation System TiVo Digital Video Recorder Sony Reader Sony Bravia Television One Laptop Per child XO2 Motorola MotoRokr EM35 phone Lenovo IdeaPad S9 HP Mini 1000 Google Android Dev Phone 1 Garmin Nuvi 860, 880, and 5000 Dell Inspiron Mini 9 and 12 Linux Distribution It is an OS that is composed of a software-based collection on Linux kernel or we can say the distribution includes the Linux Kernel. It is supporting software and libraries. We can obtain Linux-based OS by downloading any Linux distribution. These types of distributions exists for distinct types of devices such as personal computers, embedded devices, etc. Around more than 600 Linux distributions are existed and a few of the famous Linux distributions are listed as follows: Deepin OpenSUSE Fedora Solus Debian Ubuntu Elementary Linux Mint Manjaro MX Linux Are Ubuntu and Linux Differ? YES. The primary difference between window and Linux is that window is open source and free OS and its Linux distribution based on Debian, Whereas Linux is a large collection of open-source OSes that are working based on Linux kernel. Besides, Ubuntu is a distribution of Linux and Linux is a core system. Ubuntu is integrated by Canonical Ltd. and published in 2004 and Linux is integrated by Linus Torvalds and published in 1991. User mode vs Kernel mode The code of kernel component runs in a unique privilege mood known as kernel mode along with complete access to every computer resource. This code illustrates an individual process, runs in an individual address space, and don't need the context switch. Hence, it is very fast and efficient. Kernel executes all the processes and facilitates various services of a system to the processes. Also, it facilitates secured access to processes to hardware. The support code that is not needed to execute in kernel mode is inside the system library. The user programs and other types of system programs are implemented in the user mode. It includes no access to kernel mode and system hardware. User utilities/programs use the system libraries for accessing kernel functions to obtain low-level tasks of the system. Next TopicLinux Lite ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
