https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-handbrake
What is HandBrake - Javatpoint
What is HandBrake - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev What is HandBrake? HandBrake is a free and open-source converter program for digital video files. In 2003, Eric Petit developed this to ripping a film from a DVD to a data storage device. HandBrake clients are available for Linux, Mac, and Windows, licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2. HandBrake takes videos you already have and makes new ones that work on your phone, tablet, TV media player, game console, computer, or web browser that supports modern video formats. HandBrake works with the most common video files and formats, including ones created by consumer and professional video cameras, mobile devices, game and computer screen recordings, DVDs, and Blu-ray discs. HandBrake backend contains comparatively little original code. The program integrates many third-party audio and video libraries, both codecs such as FFmpeg, x264, and x265 and other components such as video deinterlacers. These are collected in such a manner to make their use more effective and accessible so that a user does not have to transcode a video, audio, and visual components in separate steps or with inaccessible command-line utilities. It is a useful tool that helps you convert a video from one format to some widely supported codecs (.mp4/.m4v/.mkv/.webm). It can support any video format and help you convert it. Also, you have several features on board to customize the video attributes while converting. Features of HandBrake When you start using this video transcoder, you will find a lot of features for video conversion. Here are some important features you need to know about HandBrake, such as: 1. Hardware acceleration Some GPUs contain dedicated hardware for video encoding and decoding. This hardware is usually provided for scenarios where the quick and power-efficient compressed video is desired, such as video conferencing and streaming video. It is less often used for transcoding because its compression efficiency rarely matches an optimized software encoder for the same codec. However, HandBrake still provides the owners of compatible hardware with the option of hardware encoding. Quick Sync was added in November 2014 with version 0.10.0, while NVENC and the VCE became supported in version 1.2.0, released in December 2018. HandBrake supports both the VCE and the newer VCN, but its interface only mentions the VCE by name, even if VCN hardware is present or a codec is being used that is too new to have VCE support. 2. Transcoding Users can customize the output by altering the bitrate, maximum file size or bit rate, and sample rate via constant quality. HandBrake supports adaptive deinterlacing, scaling, and cropping, both automatic and manual. 3. Batch HandBrake supports batch encoding through a graphical user interface (GUI) and command-line interface (CLI). Third-party scripts and UIs exist specifically for this purpose, such as HandBrake Batch Encoder, VideoScripts, and Batch HandBrake. All make use of the CLI to enable queuing of several files in a single directory. 4. Sources Handbrake transcodes video and audio from any format to a handful of modern ones, but it does not defeat or circumvent copy protection. One form of input is DVD-Video stored on a DVD, in an ISO image of a DVD, or on any data storage device as a VIDEO_TS folder. As with DVDs, HandBrake does not directly support the decryption of Blu-ray Discs. However, HandBrake can be used to transcode a Blu-ray Disc if DRM is first removed using a third-party application, such as MakeMKV. Unlike HandBrake, MakeMKV does not transcode; it removes the digital rights management from a Blu-ray Disc and creates an exact copy, at its original frame size and data rate, in a Matroska (MKV) multimedia container, which can be used as a source in HandBrake. How to Use HandBreake? Suppose we have an HD video file that is 1920×1080 pixels. We will make the frame size a bit smaller and drastically reduce the file size. Follow the following steps to convert your video file, such as: Step 1: Install Handbrake by choosing the version for your operating system from http://handbrake.fr/. Step 2: Open Handbrake from your Applications or Programs folder. Step 3: Load your video file which you want to convert. A file browser window opens automatically for you to select your source video file (or DVD). If not opened, then click the Open Source button. Step 4: Select the file you want to compress and click on the Open button. Step 5: Select the destination where you want the transcoded video file to be saved by clicking Browse. Now, save the file by clicking Ctrl + s shortcut key and give the file an appropriate name such as "(Original-Filename)-h264.mp4" so that you know which version is the one you have compressed. Step 6: Choose the Format MP4 file in the Summary button. Step 7: For Video Codec, choose H.264 (x264) in the Video button. Step 8: Choose the High Profile under Encoder Options. Step 9: In Framerate (FPS), choose Same as Source. You can also change the Frame rate of your video source if you need it. Make sure you tick the Constant Framerate button to ensure better compatibility. Step 10: Enter an Average Bitrate (kbps) for the video between 5,000 to 10,000. NOTE: If you want a much higher quality video, then Choose 10,000 but it will take longer to upload and download. If you have time to wait while Handbrake compresses the video, choose the 2-pass encoding for better results. You may tick Turbo first-pass to speed up this process slightly. Otherwise, leave this unticked. Step 11: Click on the Dimensions button, which opens a new dialogue box to change the video frame size or resolution. Change Anamorphicto None (this feature is more suited to DVD ripping). Change Modulus to 16. TickKeep Aspect Ratio. Change Widthfrom 1920 (full HD) down to 640. Your Heightshould automatically then read as 272 if you have Kept Aspect Ratio ticked. Step 12: Select the Audio tab and, Select AAC (avcodec) Codec. Choose the 000 Hz Samplerate. Choose Stereofor Mixdown. Choose 320for your audio Bitrate. Step 13: Now, click on the Start Encode button to encode your video file. Depending on your When done settings in preferences, Handbrake can notify or alert you when it's done. Step 14: Open your video file in VLC or another video player and check whether it looks good. Check periods of intense motion more carefully to make sure you don't have too many compression artifacts. If the file doesn't look good enough, try doing it again at a higher bitrate. If it looks good, then you are ready to upload the video file. Step 15: If you like the settings you are using, you can save them as a preset by clicking the + sign in the bottom right of the Presets Drawer. And give it a Preset Name and Description. Next TopicWhat is LibreOffice ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
