https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-a-template
What is a Template - javatpoint
What is a Template - javatpoint ? Home Computer Fundamentals C Java PHP HTML CSS Bootstrap JavaScript jQuery jQuery UI Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Computer Computer Fundamentals What is Computer History of Computer Types of Computer Computer Components Computer Components Input Devices Output Devices Central Processing Unit Hardware Software Operating System Computer Memory Computer Memory Register Memory Cache Memory Primary Memory RAM ROM Secondary Memory Memory Units Computer Network Computer Network Computer Virus Computer Virus Number Systems Number Systems Internet Internet Intranet Extranet Website Shortcut Keys Computer Shortcut Keys Terms Windows Computer Ports Program Printers Microphone Monitor Motherboard Incognito Mode Mouse Memory Card What is a CD What is ID ISO What is Character What is a server What is E-mail What is Keyboard What is Remote What is Webcam What is Data What is URL What is keypad What is hub What is File Bytes Exabyte Gb Kilobyte Megabyte Petabyte Terabyte What is HDD What is SSD Memory vs Storage Non-volatile memory What is M.2 SSD How To Reboot A Computer Multi-Level Cell NAND Flash Memory What is lock screen Block Storage USB flash drive VRAM Cloud Hosting CompactFlash card What is WAP? Classification of Memory Hardware vs Software Uses of Computer Uses of Internet What is Abacus Best Proxy Servers SSL vs TLS Web Console What is the GPU LAN vs WAN SSD vs HDD Introduction to Computer Data Migration JEDEC MLC vs TLC vs SLC NAND Flash VirtualBox Installation Num Lock What is a PC What is MAC Continuous Data Protection Persistent Storage What is Bit Software Definition What is a File System When was the first computer invented How many generations of the computer Minicomputer Fourth Generation of Computer Questions How to backup iPhone to Computer How To Flip Computer Screen What is Computer Science How To Speed Up Computer Why is my Computer so slow How much do computer engineers make How to Clean Computer Screen What is Computer Engineering What is Quantum Computing How does a computer work How to Check Computer Specs How to find computer IP address How to find computer name How to wipe a Computer Advantages of the Internet Disadvantages of the Internet Advantages of Computer What are the disadvantages of a computer How to factory reset a computer How to Build a Computer How to Post on Instagram from Computer How much do Computer Programmers make How to Fax from Computer How much does a computer cost How To Change Computer Name How to Connect Computer to TV How To Connect Printer To Computer What is Computer Programming How To Download Music From YouTube To Computer What is Edge Computing How To Download YouTube Videos To Computer How To Authorize A Computer on iTunes How To Connect Airpods To Computer How To Defrag a Computer Is Computer Science Hard What Does RAM Do In A Computer Who invented the computer How To Change Computer Password How To Hack A Computer How To Download Music To Computer What Does Compute Mean How Does A Quantum Computer Works How to clean Computer How to Edit Your File on Windows, Linux and MacOS How to Set up SSH SOCKS Tunnel for Private Browsing in Windows Small Computer System Interface What is Cyber Law How To Backup Computer How To Scan A Document To Computer How to Transfer Photos from Android to Computer What can you do with Computer Science Degree What is a Desktop Second Generation of Computer Third Generation of Computer Fourth Generation of Computer Fifth Generation of Computer input vs output device What is USB What is Recycle Bin What is Hybrid Topology Cache Memory vs Virtual Memory What is a storage device What is a Crimping Tool What is HDMI What is a Video Card GPU vs CPU What is a Sound Card Blu-ray vs. DVD What is a Floppy Disk What is a DIP Switch What is a Template History of Computer Networking What is a Firmware What is a Hard Copy MCQ Computer Fundamental MCQ Interview Questions HR Interview next ? ? prev What is a Template? A template or design template is a file that acts as a starting point for a new document. It is used with one or more documents and created with an overall design. For example, in Microsoft Word, you might use a template for making bio-data, resume or format as a business letter. The overall design or layout of a resume is designed with placeholder text that allows you to replace information relevant to you. A program may come with pre-designed templates that can allow users to create a template. When you are creating a custom template in terms of saving, reusing, and sharing, it may include theme effects, layouts, theme fonts, and even content. The template's design is dependent on the work user creating, but during your completed work, the similar themes and patterns should be shared by you. As compared to the layout for a story page, a design template will be different for a photo gallery page. Microsoft PowerPoint is a program that contains various design templates, which make your documents more effective and offer a cohesive and visual organization to your presentations. You can add different design and graphics on each slide that gives a better presentation for your content. For all Microsoft Office programs, there are templates available like Google Docs, Adobe InDesign, and other design programs. A template may also be described to any of the following: 1. In web design, a template, also known as a Web page template or page template that helps structure your overall design of a web page, which is provided by suppliers. For Web designer, it helps make Web design more effective and a lot of easier and displays the features of any website. When you are designing a website, the templates allow you to add text, images, and other widgets or items like navigation bars. There are hundreds of different templates provided by the companies like Squarespace that help users to make a website attractive easily. Essentially, a website template offers users various easier ways to make the effective design of a website built through web designing languages like HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets). It may cover numerous features such as stripes, background banners, square or round pictures, cautiously laid out titles, including styled and laid out typography. Website templates provide a responsive layout for the website, which is one of the most useful elements of it. Responsive websites are the websites that can adjust their size according to display screen, which help small businesses and other organizations who have customers with smartphones, through which users can get website's services on their smartphone easily that helps to increase the business growth. In some cases, a responsive website template provides a modern, mobile-friendly interface of the website and allows users or business owners to put images and data directly into a responsive website from their legacy website. 2. A template, in programming, is a feature that can be used as the basis for unique units of code. In an object-oriented programming language, C++, programmers can select individual template classes to modify from available various standard template libraries. An example of such a template is MFCL, stands for Microsoft Foundation Class Library. Especially templates used with multiple inheritances and operator overloading as they are a valuable utility in C++. Templates reduce debugging efforts as well as reduce the coding effort associated with different data types. Two kinds of the template are provided by the C++ to implement general constructs, like vector, stacks, lists, and stacks: Class template: A class template is prefixed by the following term; however, it resembles a regular class definition: template <class typename="" identifier="">, followed by the class body declaration. The class templates in C++ are best suited to container classes, and its member function definitions and declarations are in the same header file. Function template: This type of template that is implemented with the help of template parameters. The template parameter is used to pass a type as a function argument, which is a special parameter type. Thus, without repeating the overall code, the functionality may be conditioned to over one type or class. With a type parameter, the function template can be declared either template <typename identifier> function declaration or template <class identifier> function declaration. The class and type name keywords have no difference. Generally, type-checking is needed by templates at compile-time. By offering special definitions, template-generated code may be overridden for specific types, called template specialization. Furthermore, for a given set of template arguments, a special version of a function is called explicit specialization. Advantages of C++ Templates You can define a family of functions or classes with the help of C++ templates that have the ability to operate on different kinds of information. The use of templates provides you with benefits in situations that offer result in duplication of the same code for different types. For instance, to create a set of functions, you can use function templates that use the same to different data types. Also, for developing a set of typesafe classes, class templates can also be used. As compared to void pointers and C macros, sometimes templates are a better solution and especially beneficial when working with smart pointers and collections. Templates are also useful in terms of development time, as they can drastically reduce development time, which is the main reason to use them in combination with STL. Template classes could be preferred over run-time resolved code structures and are more typesafe as their parameters are known at compile time. When you are using a template, some modern techniques help you out to reduce code bloat. However, these techniques are more complex. Disadvantages of C++ Templates There is a problem with some compilers that they exhibited poor support for templates. Therefore, somewhere it decreases code portability. When many compilers detect a template definition error, they lack clear instructions that lead to an increase in the hardness for developing templates. The reckless use of templates can lead to code bloat because compilers have the ability to generate advanced code for all template types, which leads to larger executables. For instance, Generic Image Library (GIL) implements type generators when used in Adobe products. A template exposes its implementation through its nature; if you use it impoliticly in the larger systems, it may be the reason for longer build times. The code developed by the template can be difficult to debug. Also, the debugger faces the problem of locating the code at runtime as the compiler replaces the templates. For writing conventional libraries, templates are not used; however, STL itself is a collection of template classes. Next TopicHistory of Computer Networking ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
