https://www.javatpoint.com/series-vs-parallel-circuits
Difference between series and parallel circuits - javatpoint
Difference between series and parallel circuits - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between series and parallel circuits A series of circuits refer to a circuit that has only one path through which current flow. In the series circuit, all the components are connected in such a way that if any fault happens in the circuit, the current will not flow through the circuit. The current in the series circuit is the same throughout the circuit. On the other hand, parallel circuits refer to a circuit with more than one path through which current flows. In the parallel circuit, all the components have various branches for current flow; thus, the current is not the same throughout the circuit. Read the given tutorial to know the difference between series and parallel circuits. What is a series circuit? A circuit is said to be a series circuit when the flow of current is the same throughout all the components in the circuit. In series circuits, the current has only a single path. In a series circuit, the relationships between current and voltage are the exact inverse of those in the parallel circuit. The current through each series element is the same and equal to the source current (Is). In contrast, the voltage across each series element (V1, V2. V3) varies according to the impedance (in this example, the resistance) of each element. Kirchhoff's Voltage Law (KVL) applies, and the voltage supplied by the source (Vs) is equal to the sum of the individual voltage drops across each series element. Advantage of series circuits It has a simple design that is easy to understand. It does not overheat quickly. It has a higher output voltage so that we can add more power appliances. It carries the same current throughout the circuit. Disadvantage of a series circuit If the total number of components increases in the circuit, circuit resistance will more. If a fault occurs at one point, the total circuit will break. Now, consider an example of a series circuit to understand the concept. Find the current flow through the resistor R1, R2, and R3. Given R1 = 6 ohm R2 = 6 ohm R3 = 6 ohm And V = 36V Answer: By applying ohms law in the given circuit, we get V = IR V = I (R1+R2+R3) I = V/ (R1+R2+R3) I = 36/(6+6+6) I = 36/18 I = 2 Amp What is a parallel circuit? A parallel circuit refers to a circuit with two or more two paths for the current to flow. In a parallel circuit, all the components have the same voltage. In a parallel circuit, the voltage across each element is the same and equal to the source voltage (Vs), and the current through each element (I1, I2, I3) varies according to the impedance (in this example, the resistance) of each element. Kirchhoff's Current Law (KCL)_ applies, and the total current flowing from the source (Is) is equal to the sum of the individual currents flowing through each parallel element. Advantage of parallel circuits In a parallel circuit, if any one component gets damaged, the current does not stop and continues to flow through the other components; hence other components work efficiently. In a parallel circuit, the voltage across every component is the same; therefore, all components work efficiently. In a parallel circuit, you can easily connect or disconnect a new component without affecting the working of another component. Disadvantage of parallel circuit In a parallel circuit, we cannot apply an additional voltage source. A parallel circuit requires lots of wires for connection. Now, consider an example of a parallel circuit to understand the concept. Find the total resistance between the points P and Q Answer: Here, 2ohm resistance is connected in parallel with 3ohm resistor give 6/5 ohm. Now, 6/5ohm resistor is connected in series with 5 and 4ohm resistance, so total resistance between point P and Q = 6/5+5+4 = 10.2 ohm. Difference between series and parallel circuit Series Circuit Parallel Circuit A circuit is said to be a series circuit when the flow of current is the same throughout all the components in the circuit. A parallel circuit refers to a circuit with two or more two paths for the current to flow. If a fault occurs at one point, the total circuit will break. In a parallel circuit, if any one component gets damaged, the current does not stop and continues to flow through the other components; hence other components work efficiently. In a series circuit, all the components are arranged in a single line. In a parallel circuit, all the components are arranged parallel to each other. If more than one resistor is connected in series, the voltage across each resistor is not the same though the current flow is the same throughout the circuit. If the resistors are connected in parallel, the voltage across each of the resistors is the same. If V is the total voltage across the total components in the series circuit, it is equal to V1+V2+V3. If V is the total voltage across the total components in the parallel circuit, it is equal to V1=V2=V3 In a series circuit, R = R1+R2+R3 In parallel circuit, R = 1/R1 + 1/R2 + 1/R3 Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
