https://www.javatpoint.com/democracy-vs-dictatorship
Difference between Democracy and Dictatorship - javatpoint
Difference between Democracy and Dictatorship - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Democracy and Dictatorship Democracy and Dictatorship. We have heard these terms from many people and even studied about them in our history lectures. Now, what does democracy and dictatorship means? Well, we have often seen people saying that India is a democratic country. This means that the people of India decide certain things about the country. They are allowed to give their opinion regarding any political, religious, or social issue. Democracy means that the people of the country have a say in different matters of the nation. When it comes to dictatorship, we are often given the example of Hitler. Dictatorship is defined as a kind of government wherein a single person handles all the affairs of the country. He/ She just give orders, and the people have to obey them. In this kind of government, public opinion doesn't matter. This is just the basic difference between democracy and dictatorship. There are several other differences between these two terms. So, let us take a look at them. S.NO. DEMOCRACY DICTATORSHIP 1. Democracy is a kind of government where the government is chosen by the people of the country. The residents of the country have the right to put forth their opinion on different matters. On the other hand, dictatorship is defined as a government wherein a person single-handedly manages the affairs of the country. He/ She decide the order and makes sure that the people implement it. 2. The head of the country is elected by the voting process. The one with the highest number of votes becomes the head. The individual has the sole authority over the entire country. No elections take place in the dictatorship. 3. One of the most important parts of democracy is the media. It is the fourth pillar because it watches every move of the government and criticizes it whenever necessary. On the other hand, the media is the representative of the dictatorship government. The media only shows what is needed to be shown. Even if the government does something wrong, it will not be shown by the media. 4. The fundamental rights of the people are written and protected in the constitution. Citizens have the right to join any political party or organization. There are no restrictions on the people. In a dictatorship, negligible importance is given to the people. People are subjected to monitoring, brutality, policing, etc. People do not have any rights to do anything. 5. In a democracy, there is very little control over the people, news, films, etc. In a dictatorship, there is complete control of the government upon everything. 6. Democracy was first seen in Ancient Greece (508-507 BC). The dictatorship was first exercised by Gaius Julius Caeser and Lucius Cornelius in Rome. So, these are the key differences between democracy and dictatorship. Democracy depends upon negotiation and deliberation. But dictatorship depends upon the sole authorship of a person. It doesn't need to bother with public opinion. The decision-making process of dictatorship is efficient. On the other hand, the decision-making process of democracy takes time as many people, and their opinions are involved in the process. In a democracy, many documents and bills need to be passed in order to make an act. But in a dictatorship, the orders and rules are given and made by the head of the country. There are no changes in the system. That is why the dictatorship government is also called as the autocratic government, wherein brutality is practiced by the head of the country. Democracy is based on seven principles. These seven principles are: Federalism Individual Rights Republicanism Sovereignty Separation of Power Cheques and Balances Limited Government These are the principles on which several democracies depend. Apart from the principles, there are certain vivid characteristics of a democratic government. So, let us take a look at them. The head of the state is elected through the consent of all the residents of the country. Many civil liberties are given to the people who have a democratic government. Some civil liberties include the right to privacy, the right to freedom of religion, freedom of speech, the right to bear arms, etc. Citizens have the right as well as the responsibility to choose the deserving head of state. They can also take part in various political parties and organizations. Democratic Government helps in enhancing the dignity of a person. There is an independent judiciary in a democratic government. So, these are some of the characteristics of a democratic government. Today every country practices democracy because it is important to give people the right to express themselves. Now having said that, there are certain features of a dictatorship government as well. Let us take a look at them. There is only one party in a dictatorship and one leader who is responsible for making law and order. There is no individual liberty provided to the citizens of the country. The country that exercises dictatorship believes in full force and wars. The head of the state practices racialism, i.e., no faith in religion, and urges people to follow the same. So, these are some of the characteristics of a dictatorship government. Democracy is widely used by countries, and dictatorship has been more or less ended. India, the US, and other nations are democratic governments that give certain rights to the citizens to take part in political, social, and religious matters. Thus, democratic governments are much better than dictatorship governments. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
