https://www.javatpoint.com/vaadin-framework-java
Vaadin Framework Java - Javatpoint
Vaadin Framework Java - Javatpoint ? Home Java Programs OOPs String Regex Exception Multithreading Collections JDBC Swing JavaFX Servlet JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev Vaadin Framework Java In Java, Vaadin Framework is an open-source framework to develop web applications. We can work with JavaScript and AJAX because it comes with support for both of them. By using Google Web Toolkit, we can include the external feature in it. Vaadin framework renders rich data in the browser without taking the help of any markup files, and due to which it is a time saver for the developers. Using the Vaadin framework, with the help of Java features, we can create our front-end. By using the Vaadin framework, the developer can write a user interface without helping client-side web technologies in the Java programming language. Architecture of the Vaadin Framework Before setup the environment, let's understand the architecture of the Vaadin framework. The Vaadin framework provides two modules to develop a website. The first module is for the server-side, and the second one is for the client-side. The given diagram defines the entire runtime environment of the Vaadin framework. In order to deal with the Vaadin Framework, we should have knowledge of the following points: The client-side engine of the Vaadin framework is used for rendering the user action or output. The server-side handles the business-based part that receives the event-based request and generates the response for the client. Communication between two levels occurs via the HTTP protocol. The Vaadin framework uses the GWT, and due to that, the output of the Vaadin application renders faster and increases the scalability. So, the Vaadin framework has higher scalability than the conventional JavaScript-based application. The Vaadin is faster than the XML-based application because of using JSON. Separate components such as CSS and themes can be used to provide amazing customer-side feedback. In order to connect and manipulate data, the Vaadin framework has data binding modules that provide APIs. Setup Environment In order to use the Vaadin, we first have to set up the framework, and for that, we use the following steps: Step 1: We should have JDK 8 or a newer version in our local development environment because Vaadin uses JVM. We set the environment variables for JAVA to work it properly. In order to check whether the JDK 8 is installed properly or not in Windows operating system, run the java-version in the command prompt. If, as an output, it shows the java version, the JDK is successfully installed in the system. Step 2: In the next step, we install the IDE available online. These are the following IDEs that we can use for the Vaadin framework: Netbean Eclipse Intellij We have to make sure that the IDE which we use should have the latest version. Step 3: As an application server, we use the Tomcat. We configure the Tomcat server in our system to use Vaadin. If we install the latest version of Netbean, there is no need to install the Apache Tomcat because Netbean automatically installs it in our system. If we use Eclipse or Intellij, we should have to install the Apache Tomcat from its official website, i.e., https://tomcat.apache.org/. Step 4: For our application, the internet browser will act as the client. So, we can use any of the modern internet browsers like Chrome, Safari, etc. Step 5: In the end, we configure the Eclipse. We type the Vaadin in the search bar of the eclipse marketplace. We install it by click on the install button as shown below. Create First Application Let's understand how we can create a web application using the Vaadin framework by simply taking an example. We use the following steps to create the first Vaadin application using Eclipse IDE: 1) We first go to the File menu and click on the New and then click on the Other just like as: 2) Now, type Vaadin in the search bar. Select Vaadin 8 project and click on the Next 3) After clicking on the Next button, a new window opens with four options, i.e., Single-module Application Project, Multi-module Application Project, Add-on Project, and CRUD Example. Select an option that is best suited for you and go to the next step. 4) After clicking on the Next button, a new window will be open to provide the Group and Artifact ID. We click on the Finish button after fill all the information in the required fields. The finish button finishes the project, and Eclipse creates Vaadin for us. It takes some time to create an application because it requires the configuration setting. 5) Now, we go to the directory structure of the automated Vaadin project like as: 6) Our first Vaadin application is ready to run. We run the project on any of the application servers. After running the application on the server, we see the output like as: 7) Enter any value in the text box and click on the Show Data button. This click reflects the value of the text box below the button. Advantages and Disadvantages of Vaadin Framework These are the following advantages and disadvantages of the Vaadin framework: Advantages The Vaadin framework provides the following advantages for the developers: Provide multiple options In comparison to the other conventional web technologies, the Vaadin framework offers many layouts, components, and different listeners that make it much preferable to use. Server-side programming In order to build or develop web pages, there is no need to use markup languages. The Vaadin Framework is developed or built by using Java, and that framework itself provides all kinds of support by using Google Web Toolkit. Object-oriented Vaadin framework completely based on Java, i.e., fully object-oriented programming language. Due to object-oriented behavior, the developer can easily develop the website. The developer should have knowledge of the uses of the Vaadin classes. Simple to learn and integrate The Vaadin Framework is not so typical to understand and can be easily integrated with another framework. The Vaadin framework offers plugin support for developers. Disadvantages The Vaadin framework provides the following disadvantages for the developers: Face problems to find skilled personnel The Vaadin framework is recently is a new technology and due to which the properly skilled personnel are always on demand and they can be costly. It is more difficult to find resources that are capable of solving a complex problem with Vaadin. Size of JavaScript file The size of the dynamic javascript depends on the context that can be increased or reduced. A bigger server is required to maintain its accessibility over the internet. No fancy User Interface The Vaadin Framework is unable to design fancy UI because it focuses on business. Scalability In a comparison of other technologies, Vaadin Framework is less scalable. Next TopicEJB vs. Spring ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
