https://www.javatpoint.com/debugging
Debugging - Javatpoint
Debugging - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Debugging To launch an application into the market, it is very necessary to cross-check it multiple times so as to deliver an error-free product. When we talk about delivering a bug-free product, then our main concern is all about customer satisfaction because if you are application is not up to the mark, then eventually it will demolish the company's reputation in the market. In this article, we are going to see what makes debugging stand out of the queue and how it is different from software testing. We will be discussing the following topics: What is Debugging Why do we need debugging? Steps involved in debugging Debugging strategies Tools required to debug What is Debugging? In the development process of any software, the software program is religiously tested, troubleshot, and maintained for the sake of delivering bug-free products. There is nothing that is error-free in the first go. So, it's an obvious thing to which everyone will relate that as when the software is created, it contains a lot of errors; the reason being nobody is perfect and getting error in the code is not an issue, but avoiding it or not preventing it, is an issue! All those errors and bugs are discarded regularly, so we can conclude that debugging is nothing but a process of eradicating or fixing the errors contained in a software program. Debugging works stepwise, starting from identifying the errors, analyzing followed by removing the errors. Whenever a software fails to deliver the result, we need the software tester to test the application and solve it. Since the errors are resolved at each step of debugging in the software testing, so we can conclude that it is a tiresome and complex task regardless of how efficient the result was. Why do we need Debugging? Debugging gets started when we start writing the code for the software program. It progressively starts continuing in the consecutive stages to deliver a software product because the code gets merged with several other programming units to form a software product. Following are the benefits of Debugging: Debugging can immediately report an error condition whenever it occurs. It prevents hampering the result by detecting the bugs in the earlier stage, making software development stress-free and smooth. It offers relevant information related to the data structures that further helps in easier interpretation. Debugging assist the developer in reducing impractical and disrupting information. With debugging, the developer can easily avoid complex one-use testing code to save time and energy in software development. Steps involved in Debugging Following are the different steps that are involved in debugging: Identify the Error: Identifying an error in a wrong may result in the wastage of time. It is very obvious that the production errors reported by users are hard to interpret, and sometimes the information we receive is misleading. Thus, it is mandatory to identify the actual error. Find the Error Location: Once the error is correctly discovered, you will be required to thoroughly review the code repeatedly to locate the position of the error. In general, this step focuses on finding the error rather than perceiving it. Analyze the Error: The third step comprises error analysis, a bottom-up approach that starts from the location of the error followed by analyzing the code. This step makes it easier to comprehend the errors. Mainly error analysis has two significant goals, i.e., evaluation of errors all over again to find existing bugs and postulating the uncertainty of incoming collateral damage in a fix. Prove the Analysis: After analyzing the primary bugs, it is necessary to look for some extra errors that may show up on the application. By incorporating the test framework, the fourth step is used to write automated tests for such areas. Cover Lateral Damage: The fifth phase is about accumulating all of the unit tests for the code that requires modification. As when you run these unit tests, they must pass. Fix & Validate: The last stage is the fix and validation that emphasizes fixing the bugs followed by running all the test scripts to check whether they pass. Debugging Strategies For a better understanding of a system, it is necessary to study the system in depth. It makes it easier for the debugger to fabricate distinct illustrations of such systems that are needed to be debugged. The backward analysis analyzes the program from the backward location where the failure message has occurred to determine the defect region. It is necessary to learn the area of defects to understand the reason for defects. In the forward analysis, the program tracks the problem in the forward direction by utilizing the breakpoints or print statements incurred at different points in the program. It emphasizes those regions where the wrong outputs are obtained. To check and fix similar kinds of problems, it is recommended to utilize past experiences. The success rate of this approach is directly proportional to the proficiency of the debugger. Debugging Tools The debugging tool can be understood as a computer program that is used to test and debug several other programs. Presently, there are many public domain software such as gdb and dbx in the market, which can be utilized for debugging. These software offers console-based command-line interfaces. Some of the automated debugging tools include code-based tracers, profilers, interpreters, etc. Here is a list of some of the widely used debuggers: Radare2 WinDbg Valgrind Radare2 Radare2 is known for its reverse engineering framework as well as binary analysis. It is made up of a small set of utilities, either utilized altogether or independently from the command line. It is also known as r2. It is constructed around disassembler for computer software for generating assembly language source code from machine-executable code. It can support a wide range of executable formats for distinct architectures of processors and operating systems. WinDbg WinDbg is a multipurpose debugging tool designed for Microsoft Windows operating system. This tool can be used to debug the memory dumps created just after the Blue Screen of Death that further arises when a bug check is issued. Besides, it is also helpful in debugging the user-mode crash dumps, which is why it is called post-mortem debugging. Valgrind The Valgrind exist as a tool suite that offers several debugging and profiling tools to facilitate users in making faster and accurate program. Memcheck is one of its most popular tools, which can successfully detect memory-related errors caused in C and C++ programs as it may crash the program and result in unpredictable behavior. Next TopicGNU Wget ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
