https://www.javatpoint.com/frontend-testing-vs-backend-testing
Frontend Testing vs Backend Testing - javatpoint
Frontend Testing vs Backend Testing - javatpoint ? Home Software Testing Compiler Java COA Computer Network HTML CSS Selenium Servlet JSP jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Software Testing Tutorial Software Testing Principles Software Development Life Cycle Software Testing Life Cycle Types of Software Testing SDLC models Waterfall model Spiral Model Hybrid Model Prototype Model V-model Types of Testing Manual Testing Automation Testing Types of Manual White Box Testing Black Box Testing Grey Box Testing White Box Techniques Data Flow Testing Control Flow Testing Branch Coverage Testing Statement Coverage Testing Decision Coverage Testing Black Box Techniques Decision Table All-pair Testing Cause-Effect Testing State Transition Use Case Types of Black Box Functional Testing Non-Functional Testing Types of Functional Unit Testing Integration Testing System Testing Types of Non-functional Performance Testing Usability Testing Compatibility Testing Test case development Testing Documentation Test Scenario Test Case Testing Techniques Error Guessing Equivalence Portioning Boundary Value analysis Test Management Test Plan Test case review process Requirement Traceability Matrix Defect Tracking Bug in Software Testing Bug Life cycle Severity & Priority Test Environment Other types of Testing Regression Testing Smoke Testing Sanity Testing Static Testing Dynamic Testing Load Testing Stress Testing Recovery testing Exploratory Testing Visual Testing Acceptance Testing Alpha Testing Beta Testing Database Testing Mainframe Testing Adhoc Testing Globalization Testing Mutation Testing Security Testing Accessibility Testing Structural Testing Volume Testing Scalability Testing Stability Testing Spike Testing Negative Testing Positive Testing Software Testing Tools Software testing tools Test management tools Defect/Bug tracking tools Automation testing tools Performance testing tools Cross-browser testing tools Integration testing tools Unit testing tools Mobile Testing Tools GUI testing tools Security testing tools Penetration Testing Tools Differences Automation Testing vs Manual Testing Load Testing vs Stress Testing Smoke Testing vs Sanity Testing System Testing vs Acceptance Testing Quality Assurance vs Quality Control Static Testing vs Dynamic Testing Verification vs Validation Testing Alpha Testing vs Beta Testing Black Box vs. White Box vs. Grey Box Testing Globalization Testing vs Localization Testing Test Case vs Test Scenarios Test Plan vs Test Strategy Boundary value analysis vs Equivalence partitioning SDLC vs STLC Bug vs Defect vs Error vs Fault vs Failure Testing vs Debugging Frontend Testing vs Backend Testing HLD vs LLD BRS vs SRS Positive Testing vs Negative Testing Software Testing MCQ Software Testing MCQ Interview Questions Software Testing Interview next ? ? prev Frontend Testing VS. Backend Testing In this section, we are going to see the difference between Frontend Testing and Backend Testing. The frontend and backend are mostly used technical teams in the computer industry. Generally, a web-based application is three-tier architecture application. The first layer is the presentation layer known as Front-end, and the third layer is the database layer known as backend. What is Frontend Testing? It is a type of software testing used to evaluate the presentation layer of a three-tier architecture in a web application. In a web application, frontend testing will include the analysis of multiple components such as: Menus Graphs Forms Reports and related JavaScript. The word Frontend testing is used to covers a diversity of testing approaches. To execute the frontend testing, a test engineer required a good knowledge of business necessities. It can be executed either manually or with the help of some automation tools. Fundamentally, it is performed on the UI (user interface), which is also known as the presentation layer in a three-tier architecture. What is Backend Testing? Another part of software testing is backend testing, which is used to test the application and Database layer of a 3-Tier Architecture in a web application. Essentially, in order to perform the back-end testing, we do not require any GUI (Graphical User Interface) as it is achieved on the AUI (Application User Interface) and database. That's why we can pass the data directly with browsers' help and the parameters needed for the specific function. And to retrieve the response in a nearly predefined format, such as XML or JSON. We can also connect to the database directly and validate the data with the help of SQL commands. To test the backend and application layers, we can go for the backend testing. After seeing the brief introduction of frontend and backend testing, we will understand the comparison between them. Difference between Frontend Testing and Backend Testing In the below table, we have listed some of the important differences between frontend and backend testing. S.NO Frontend testing Backend testing 1. It is executed on the presentation layer of the 3-tier architecture. It is performed on the Application and Database layer of the 3-tier architecture. 2. It is always performed on the Graphical user interface (GUI). It is always implemented on the Application User Interface (AUI). 3. While performing the frontend testing, we do not require to store any information in a database. While performing the backend testing, we need to store the data in the database. 4. The understanding of requirements is necessary in order to execute the frontend testing. The understanding of the database is essential to execute the backend testing. 5. It will analyze the overall capabilities of the application. It will analyze the deadlock, data corruption, or data loss. 6. In GUI-based frontend testing, the resources are centrally achieved in cloud computing. In AUI based backend testing, the resources are executed on a collaboration pattern in Grid Computing. 7. Knowledge about the automation frameworks tools like QTP, Selenium is mandatory to perform the Frontend testing. Knowledge about SQL (Structured Query Language) language concepts is compulsory to implement the backend testing. 8. Frontend testing includes the verification of the application and checks the performance of application whether it is working according to the requirement. Backend testing execution makes sure that the data is continuing as there is no performance hit. 9. System testing and Acceptance Testing, unit testing, accessibility testing, and regression testing are performed under frontend testing. The database testing (API testing and SQL testing) are performed under backend testing. 10. Just like other types of testing frontend testing also contains some tools, which are as follows: LiveReload Karma Grunt To execute the backend testing, we have some tools available in the market, which are as follows: DTM Data Generator TurboData Data Factory Conclusion In this tutorial, we have made the difference between the frontend and backend testing. And we can conclude that both testings' play a significant role in software testing. The frontend testing contains HTML, JS, CSS, and images, whereas the backend testing contains the business logic testing and database testing. Frontend and backend testing has different activities implemented by the developers that work on both ends of the line. Finally, we can say that the frontend means the browser and the backend, the server, or, more recently, the cloud. Next TopicHLD vs LLD ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
