https://www.javatpoint.com/hall-effect
Hall Effect - Javatpoint
Hall Effect - Javatpoint ? Home Blog Python Java JavaScript XML C Embedded System SQL HTML CSS Android Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Blog What is Quora What is Yandex Contact Page Duckduckgo Search Engine ADA Compliances ASO-App Store Optimization Search Result BSE Communication Udemy vs Udacity Types of Engineering Cc vs. Bcc Flat File database Lossless vs Lossy data compression Reverse Image Search Ymail Types of Dimensions Types of Facts Table Interpersonal Skills Means of Communication What is Tomcat AnyDesk PDF Editor Software Instagram Algorithm YouTube Algorithm Network Interface Card VoIP Amortization meaning Personality Development Tangible Meaning Content Marketing Goals FAQ AngularJS vs Bootstrap IoT Applications What is GTMetrix What is REST Caesar Cipher Technique Programming Language Barriers of Communication NSE Sensex Quotes Verbal Communication Web Application Best Notepad++ Alternative Software Top Remote Access Software Alternatives of Team Viewer Best Grammarly Alternatives in 2020 Best Fake Mail Generator Software Define Exploit What is LAMP Types of Transmission What is cloud security RISC vs CISC Anaconda Automation Tools Safari for Windows Autotrophs vs Heterotrophs Vulnerability Assessment and Scanning Tools Capacitor DTE vs DCE Whatsapp Messenger vs Viber Wifi vs Hotspot HTTPS Prime Numbers Program to Convert cm to Feet and Inches Program to Convert Feet to cm Program to Convert Feet to Inches Program to Convert Inches to cm Program to Convert Inches to Feet Program to Convert Kilometer to cm Port Forwarding Define CentOS What is NVMe What is OpenShift What is Vagrant What is VDI Facebook for Business Top Automation Testing Tools Google Search Operators Ring Light Solenoid What is a Docker Swarm What is HITRUST What is Nmap Best Fiverr Alternatives Best Mobile Phone Spying Apps Best Typing Tutor Software Best WeTransfer Alternatives in 2020 Types of Backup What is Alternative Energy What is Docker Volume What is chmod 755 Install PostgreSQL MAC LED Privileged Access Management What is a Business Analyst Kubernetes Pods Vulnerability Assessment What is Phishing What is Ransomware 7-ZIP Arch User Repository Foxit Reader GDrive Rufus XnView What is Bodhi Linux What is Brackets.io What is the name of top search engines What is cloud storage Battery MOSFET Prometheus Monitoring Best Video Downloader for Chrome Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online How to git undo last commit What is ClickHouse What is Pen Test What is SIEM Tool File extensions What is BlackArch What is Blender Selenium Alternatives YouTube Alternatives Zoom Alternatives Conductor DC Motor Iptables commands Latin Semantic Indexing Types of SSL Certificates What are SCM tools Vault Download Define Acculturation Social Control Soil Conservation What is Security Operation Center What is Smallpox What is Tactic Force Types of Communication Types of Pollution High Availability Best C Cleaner Alternatives in 2020 Best Free Torrent Clients for P2P Downloads Best Screen Capture Software and Screenshot Tools How to edit a pdf file Firefox Installation on Windows How to block a website on Firefox Alternating Current Switch What is ySense Debian 10 or Buster What is Discord About Flatpak Big Data Technologies Types of soil Software Development Tools in 2020 DHCP ICT Tools PayPal Alternatives XAMPP Alternatives Introduction to sap PP Hard Drive for Gaming Ad Blocker for Chrome Magnet Containerized Applications Best Guest Post Sites Top 10 Sports bikes in India Pyramid Programs in VB What is Terraform Snakebite What is Solidification How to add a WhatsApp sharing button to a website Docker Alternatives Udemy Alternatives Cloud Migration Types of Bank Accounts Types of Insurance What is SEMrush What is Slack OpenStack Architecture What is Colocation Research Methodology MCQ Angular Material (MAT) Button Angular Material (MAT) Card and Paginator MAT Date-picker PHP cURL Pilot Testing SweetAlert Types of Rocks Electronic devices Semiconductor What is Metasploit Paraphrasing Tools System Requirements Document ATM Abbreviation Jira Alternatives innerText vs innerHTML Sphere Formula What is Economics What is Nutrition What is t-Test What is Ecosystem Spark Big Data How to rotate a picture What is DigitalOcean Examples of search engines PhpFiddle What is a CVV number How to make money by Guest Posting What is Ethereum What is Hashcat Phishing Attack Meaning What is Cloud Console Types of Energy Types of Magnets CPR-Definition Top 10 Beer Brands in the World Types of Fire Extinguisher Types of Vitamins Brute Force Meaning What is Encryption What is Project Management Amplifier Sphere Magnets Zener diode Top 10 Beer brands in India MCQs Preparation 2021 Top 10 Politicians in India Greek Euclid's Algorithm Angular Material (MAT) Form-Field Research Tools Types of Sentences Types of Teeth How to write an introduction for a project What is Pen Table Three properties of metals Timestamp to Date Cloud-Native Applications How to change the default browser Get hostname from IP address What is Project Tiger What is Raspberry PI Paramagnetic vs Diamagnetic Types of Cheque Types of Triangles Types of Entrepreneurs Types of Entrepreneurship Abiotic Components of Ecosystem How to write a conclusion for a project Best Survey Sites to Make Money Online Breadboard PNP Transistors CRM Tools Excel Macro Language Toolbar in Computer Transformer MCQ Kubernetes Dashboard Server Monitoring Tools Webmaster Tools What is Apache 2D shapes Constant variable definition Hexadecimal numbers list How to write HTML Environmental science MCQ Gnome Plagiarism Tools Use-Case Model 3D Printer Cardboard Resistor color code Ancient History MCQ Virtual Machine What is Snapshot Types of Battery Types of Capacitor Types of Disasters Types of Ecosystem How to add Like button in HTML and CSS RSA Encryption Algorithm Google Tools Is Android Better than iPhone Diode Soldering Iron Is Yahoo a search engine What is a Greenfield project Hard disk definition and function Sample space formula Smallest two-digit prime number Types of Gears Life Processes MCQ Probability MCQ What is Emulator What is Global Variable Are Animal Cells are Eukaryotic Google Input Tools VipTools Class 10th Science MCQ What are Containers Top 10 Richest Caste in India Top 10 Whisky brands in India What is String in Programming 500 Internal Server Error Database Schema What is bcc Scrum Meaning How to Change root user password ubuntu What is soft computing Types of Angles Types of Cell Types of Motion Types of Resistors Authentication Vs. Authorization FAT32 CMOS Hall Effect Lithium-Ion batteries PID Controller Solder Types of Thermometer Types of Transformer Debugging GNU Wget Statistics MCQs Least common denominator Logical operators Engineering Mechanics MCQ Mechanical Engineering MCQ Environmental Studies MCQ What is PDFescape Types of Coal Types of Plants Bridge Rectifier Half wave rectifier What is Format Factory What is HandBrake What is LibreOffice What are spy apps and how do they work What is the need of data lake Types of Joints Types of Volcanoes Kubernetes vs. Docker Socket.IO Synchronous Motor What is Cryptocurrency Fluid Mechanics MCQ Soft Computing MCQ Program to calculate Volume of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Perimeter of Hexagon Write a Program to calculate the Area of Rhombus Write a Program to calculate the surface Area of Cone Write a Program to calculate the Surface Area of Hemisphere Write a Program to find the Perimeter of Ellipse What is BCM Different password names for greater protection Embedded Systems MCQ Electrical MCQ Class 12 Physics MCQ Inline Block Elements How to Remove Background from Image What is Brute Force Attack What is an M.2 SSD WhatsApp Web IOT in Agriculture Log infinity value Quantum Physics Uses of computer in Hospitals What is a cloud platform What Is a Data Centre Java Related What is ASCII General Purpose Programming James Gosling Sun Microsystems Multiprogramming vs Multiprocessing vs Multitasking next ? ? prev Hall Effect Hall Effect is defined as the phenomenon of the generation of a small voltage due to the deflection of charge carriers in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the electric filed and magnetic field. The charge carriers are the electrons and holes. The electrons possess a negative charge, while holes possess a positive charge. Hall Effect is generally observed in the conductor. Under the electric field (E) application, the electrons and holes drift and constitute a current. The magnetic field perpendicular to this electric field causes the deflection of the electrons and holes. Such deflection produces a small voltage in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the electric field and magnetic field. The Hall Effect was discovered in 1879 by the physicist Edwin Hall. Let's discuss how the electrons and holes result in the deflection under the electric and magnetic fields. Drift of charge carriers in Electric and Magnetic fields Let us consider the effect of the Electric field on an electron with charge q and mass m. We know that the electrons in a conductor are constantly moving in the absence of any field. Such movement is known as random motion. The same case applies to holes. Hence, we generally use the term 'charge carriers' for both the electrons and holes. The energy for the movement of charge carriers in random motion comes from the temperature of the body. Thus, random motion is also called as thermal motion. The movement of charge carriers in the random motion causes them to collide with each other. The collision occurs between the atoms of the lattice, impurities in the sample, and charge carriers themselves. But, the net average velocity is zero. When the Electric field is applied, the charge carriers move in the x-direction with an average velocity in the same direction. There are large numbers of charge carriers and all are moving in the x-direction. The name given to such a motion with the collisions is termed as drift velocity. It is given by: Jx=qnVx…(1) Where, Jxisthecurrentdensity Vxisthedriftvelocity qisthechargeofthecarrier nisthenumberofchargecarriers It can also be written as: Jx=?Ex ?istheconductivityofthematerial It can be expressed as: Hall Effect Experiment As discussed, Hall Effect is generally carried on conductors. It is due to the presence of random charge carriers in the conductor. Let's take a p-type semiconductor and apply a voltage between the two points (C and D) in the x-direction. It is shown below: The p-type semiconductor consists of majority carriers' holes and minority carriers electrons. The application of voltage results in the drift of hole and the flow of current Ix. If a magnetic field B is applied in the z-direction, the holes in the x-direction are deflected. Such deflecting force due to the magnetic field experienced by a single hole can be written as: The above notation is expressed in the vector form. The force in the y-direction is: Fy=(Ey-vxBz)…(2) The impact of force on the hole causes it to gather the acceleration in the y-direction. The hole will no longer be able to move in the x-direction. A force in the y-direction needs to be applied so that the total force in the y-direction equals zero. It means that: Ey=vxBz…(3) The establishment of such electric field Ey is known as the 'Hall Effect.' The electric field can be calculated as: Here, V is called 'Hall Voltage.' We know that Vx is the drift voltage, as discussed in equation 1. It is given by: Putting the value of Vx in equation 3, we get: p is called as the carrier concentration of the semiconductor. We have replaced n with p because we are considering the case of holes of a p-type semiconductor. If the semiconductor bar is n-type, the parameters will be -q and n instead of q and p. We can write equation 4 as: Here, Rh is called the Hall Coefficient. Ey is called as the Hall Field. Let's define other parameters using the above equations. The number of holes can be calculated as: Putting the value of Ey = V/w and Jx = Ix / bw, we get: Here, bw is the area of the conductor. Applications of Hall Effect The Hall Effect is used to indicate the magnitude and presence of the magnetic field. Hence, it is preferred is various applications, such as sensors, DC motors, magnetometers, disk drives, speed detection, etc. Let's discuss some of the most common applications of the Hall Effect. The applications of Hall Effect are listed below: Multiple sensors functioning The Hall sensors are used to detect the direction of the movement. When a rectangular semiconductor slab is placed in a magnetic field, the force causes by the field deflects the charge carriers. Such deflection helps to determine the movement of charge carriers in a particular direction. Some of the Hall Effect sensors come with a built-in voltage regulator and DC Amplifiers that improve the device's output voltage and hysteresis. Magnetometers The Hall Effect mechanism is used to find the magnetic field through the magnetometers. It is also a type of sensor that produces a voltage which is proportional to the applied magnetic field. But, it is used in applications where the presence of magnetic field strength is large. DC Motors The Hal Effect sensors are used in the brushless type DC motors. It is used instead of the brushes. The role of such sensors is to detect the position of the rotor or the permanent magnet. Disk Drives The Hall Effect sensors are used to detect the magnetic flux lines orthogonal to the Hard Disk Drive (HDD). Advantages of Hall Effect Measures the magnetic field Hall Effect is used to determine the large magnetic fields. It can be measured with the help of the Hall Effect equation discussed above. The equation is: If the other parameters in the above equation (Voltage, the density of charge carriers) are known, we can easily calculate the magnetic field. Measures the carrier density By using other parameters (I, B, and q) and measuring the Hall voltage, the carrier density can be calculated using the Hall equation. Detection of the magnetic flux lines The Hall Effect sensors are various applications to detect the magnetic flux line, such as HDD. Charge Differentiation The Hall Effect parameters (Hall voltage) help us differentiate between the positive and negative charges. If the Hall Voltage is positive, it means that the mobile charge carriers are holes. Similarly, the negative Hall voltage depicts the presence of negative charge carriers. Next TopicLithium-Ion batteries ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
