https://www.javatpoint.com/homeopathy-vs-allopathy
Difference between Homeopathy and Allopathy - javatpoint
Difference between Homeopathy and Allopathy - javatpoint ? Home All Differences IT Differences Medical Differences Science Differences Quiz Projects Interview Q Forum Training Differences All Differences Animal Differences Finance Differences Food Differences Geography Differences IT Differences Law Differences Medical Differences Politics Differences Science Differences Miscellaneous Differences next ? ? prev Difference between Homeopathy and Allopathy People often get ill due to several reasons. They are susceptible to diseases because of certain reasons like a weak immune system, psychological imbalance, etc. And people have a choice of medication to take, i.e., homeopathy or allopathy. Homeopathy and Allopathy are distinctive, but both aim at eliminating the disease from the body. For instance, in homeopathy, the doctors believe that a mental condition has led to an ailment in a patient. On the other hand, in allopathy, the doctors feel that a person has eaten something wrong due to which he is suffering from the diseases. There are certain differences between homeopathy and allopathy. So, let us take a look at them. S.NO. HOMEOPATHY ALLOPATHY 1. Homeopathy is based on the concept that 'the source which has caused the ailment will cure it.' Allopathy is based on a belief/ concept, i.e., 'the cure is other than the cause.' 2. Homeopathic medicines take a little bit of time to relieve the patient from the ailment. Homeopathic medicines do not give instant results. On the other hand, allopathy relieves the patient instantly, but it comes with its own share of side-effects. 3. Homeopathy believes in the concept of curing the body and bringing out a change in it so that it can function in a better way. Allopathy believes in giving instant relief to the patient through the use of drugs. 4. Homeopathy does not harm the body in any way. It focuses on treating the past ailments along with the new ones. On the other hand, allopathy is concerned with treating a particular body part that has been hampered due to the ailment. But in treating the disease, it has its share of side-effects. 5. Homeopathic doctors believe that an imbalance in mental and emotional causes several ailments in patients. The doctors in homeopathy treat the diseases with the smallest dose of medicines which does not affect the immune system. Allopathy is known as a 'double edge sword' because the doctors are heavily dependent upon the drugs for treating the disease. 6. Homeopathy has always been a pain-free treatment wherein the patients are given small doses of medicines. Allopathy includes painful treatments wherein several machines are attached to the patient. So, these are the key differences between homeopathy and allopathy. Well, it is interesting to note that people who want instant relief go for allopathic medicines. For instance, if somebody has a headache or a body ache, then he/ she will go for the allopathic medicines, as they help in relieving the body from the ache instantly. But a person who does not want to hamper his/ her body must go for homeopathic medicines. People who take homeopathic medicines are required to have a lot of patience because the medicines take a fair amount of time to cure the ailment. The minimum course run of homeopathic medicine is two weeks. For instance, if a person has some intestinal infection or gastric disease, then he/ she can take homeopathic medications. Well, it solely depends upon the person whether he/ she wants to go for homeopathy or allopathy. If someone wants instant relief, they go for allopathic medicines. In modern times, when people are working and cannot afford to fall sick, they go for allopathic medicines, even for a common cold. Well, it is interesting to note that the homeopathic medicines and the system were started 200 years ago. As already discussed earlier, homeopathy solely rests on the concept of providing a minimal dose to cure a disease. Homeopathic medicines do not fight the disease; rather it intensifies the immune system so that the body can fight the disease. The body gets prepared in a span of 2-3 weeks, and that is why homeopathic medicines take time to cure the ailment. Apart from intensifying the immune system, homeopathy also focuses on maintaining a balance between the mental, physical and emotional structure of the body. Apart from homeopathy, it is important to note that the term allopathy was coined by Samuel Hahnemann. The doctors who follow allopathy medications follow a particular set of rules. The main aim of allopathy is to cure the body part that has been destroyed or broken due to the ailment. But allopathic treatment has its side-effects which are known to the patients. For instance, the medicine taken by the patient for kidney stones directly affects the liver, which can cause serious damage in the long run. A lot of people prefer homeopathic medicines as it is the only medicine that doesn't have side-effects as compared to the allopathic treatment. But allopathic and homeopathic treatment has the main aim of curing the patient as soon as possible. The ways of both treatments are different, but they aim at curing the disease from the root. The main difference between them is the side-effects. The difference between homeopathy and allopathy is already given above. The choice lies with the people whether they wish to take up the homeopathic treatment or the allopathic treatment. Well, it is advisable to have homeopathic treatment while a person is young and allopathic treatment must be provided in the later 50s because the body needs an instant relief from several kinds of aches and diseases. Thus, both homeopathy and allopathy have unique characteristics, and both are important in their own sense. Next TopicDifference between ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials SoapUI RPA Manual T. Cucumber Appium PostgreSQL Solr MongoDB Gimp Verilog Teradata PhoneGap Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview Company Trending Technologies AI AWS Selenium Cloud Hadoop ReactJS D. Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git ML DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. E. Hacking C. Graphics Software E. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. Automata C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. Data Mining Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at hr@javatpoint.com. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
